{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red33\green89\blue153;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c16078\c43137\c66667;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 'The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n108\\n\\nA\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 AAA or triple-A\\n2 abattoir\\n3 abbreviations\\n4 -able\\n5 A-bomb\\n6 abortion\\n7 ABS\\n8 abscess\\n9 academic titles\\n10 accept, except\\n11 access\\n12 accessible\\n13 accidentally, not accidently.\\n14 accolade, not acolade.\\n15 accommodate, not accomodate.\\n16 Achilles(cid:25) heel, tendon\\n17 acknowledgment, not acknowledgement.\\n18 acolyte, not acolite.\\n19 acre\\n20 acronyms\\n21 acting\\n22 activity\\n23 actor\\n24 acute, chronic\\n25 AD\\n26 adage\\n27 adapter, adaptor\\n28 ADB\\n29 additional/in addition to\\n30 adjectives\\n31 ad-lib\\n32 administration\\n33 admiral\\n34 admissible, inadmissible, not admissable\\n35 admit\\n36 ad nauseam\\n37 adoption\\n38 ADR\\n39 adrenaline, not adrenalin\\n40 advance, advancement\\n41 advance planning\\n42 adverbs\\n43 adverse, averse\\n44 advice, advise\\n45 adviser\\n46 aeroplane\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n108\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n109\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 affect, effect\\n48 AFL-CIO\\n49 Afrikaner\\n50 Afrikaans\\n51 aftermath\\n52 AG\\n53 Afterwards, but in American style afterward\\n54 aggravate, annoy\\n55 age\\n56 ageing, but in American style aging\\n57 aged, elderly\\n58 agenda\\n59 AGM\\n60 AIDS\\n61 air base\\n62 Airbus\\n63 aircraft\\n64 air fare\\n65 air force\\n66 Air Force One\\n67 Air France-KLM\\n68 airlift\\n69 airlines\\n70 air raid\\n71 air strike\\n72 alibi\\n73 Al Jazeera\\n74 al Qaeda\\n75 albino, albinos\\n76 alfresco\\n77 alias\\n78 all right\\n79 all rounder\\n80 All Saints\\' Day\\n81 all-time, all time\\n82 Allahu akbar\\n83 allege\\n84 allot, allotting, allotted\\n85 allude, refer\\n86 allusion, illusion\\n87 Almaty\\n88 almost exactly\\n89 alpine\\n90 altar, alter\\n91 altercation\\n92 alternate, alternative\\n93 altitudes\\n94 Aluminium\\n95 alumnus (man) alumna (woman) alumni (plural)\\n96 Alzheimer(cid:25)s disease\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n109\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n110\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n97 a.m.\\n98 AM\\n99 ambassador\\n100 ambience, not ambiance.\\n101 American\\n102 American Indian\\n103 American spelling\\n104 Americas\\n105 America\\'s Cup\\n106 amid\\n107 amok, not amock or amuck.\\n108 among, between\\n109 ampersand\\n110 anaemia, anaemic but anemia, anemic is American\\nstyle.\\n111 analog, not analogue\\n112 analysts\\n113 ancestor\\n114 and\\n115 annex\\n116 annual meeting\\n117 another\\n118 Antarctic, Antarctica\\n119 antennae, antennas\\n120 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty\\n121 anticipate, expect\\n122 anti-\\n123 antitrust\\n124 aneurysm\\n125 anxious, eager\\n126 any more\\n127 anything\\n128 anywhere\\n129 anyone, any one\\n130 APEC\\n131 apostolic delegate\\n132 apostrophes\\n133 appeal\\n134 appraise, apprise\\n135 appreciation\\n136 approximately\\n137 April Fool\\'s Day\\n138 Arab names\\n139 arbitrator, arbiter, mediator\\n140 archaeology, but American style is archeology\\n141 Arctic Sea, Arctic Circle\\n142 Argentina, Argentine\\n143 aroma\\n144 armada\\n145 army\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n110\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n111\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n146 around\\n147 artefact,but American style is artifact\\n148 arrest\\n149 as\\n150 as, like\\n151 ASEAN\\n152 Asian subcontinent\\n153 assassin, assassination\\n154 assert\\n155 Astana\\n156 Asiatic\\n157 at the present time, at this time\\n158 athlete(cid:25)s foot\\n159 attache\\n160 attempt\\n161 ATM\\n162 audiovisual\\n163 augur, auger\\n164 Australian Labor Party\\n165 Autarchy, autarky\\n166 author\\n167 automaker\\n168 auxiliary, not auxilliary.\\n169 averages\\n170 AU\\n171 averse\\n172 awakened\\n173 awe-struck\\n174 awhile, a while\\n175 axe, axed, axeing; but American style is ax, axed,\\naxing\\n\\nAAA or triple-A\\n\\nTop rating for bonds of the highest quality. Awarded by the main rating agencies: Standard &\\nPoor\\'s, Moody\\'s and Fitch. No quote marks around ratings.\\n\\nSee also credit rating, www.moodys.com , www2.standardandpoors.com, www.fitchratings.com,\\nMoody\\'s, Standard & Poor\\'s\\n\\nabattoir\\n\\nNot abbatoir.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n111\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nabbreviations\\n\\n112\\n\\nAvoid inventing acronyms or abbreviations and never invent short spellings of proper company\\nnames. We may use some abbreviations for brevity but never at the expense of clarity. A reader\\nshould never have to read backwards to find out what an abbreviation means. Use a generic term,\\ne.g. the company or the organisation, rather than stud a story with abbreviations, especially where\\nmore than one or two sets of initials are involved.\\n\\nSpace constraints on alerts and headlines make it tempting to invent new short forms for words and\\ncreate company names, but a better and more accurate headline is almost always possible. It is not\\nacceptable to change the spelling of a proper company name. An abbreviation, if widely known,\\nshould be used instead, e.g. IBM not Intl Bus. Mach.. Some very common abbreviations, e.g. AIDS,\\nNATO, may be used alone at first reference with the full name given subsequently. These are listed\\nin the quick reference entries. Abbreviations of two initials take full stops, e.g. U.S. and U.N. The\\nexceptions are EU (European Union) and UK (United Kingdom). The full stops may be omitted in\\nalerts and headlines if there are space constraints. Abbreviations of three or more initials and\\nacronyms (words composed of initials or initial syllables) do not take full stops, e.g. IBM, UNICEF,\\nWEU. If initials are well known, e.g. PLO, you need not bracket the initials after the first full\\nreference. You may write The Palestine Liberation Organisation has sent two envoys ... and then a\\nPLO statement said the two men would ... If the institution is little known, bracket the initials after the\\nfirst reference, e.g. The Western European Union (WEU) decided on Tuesday. In the case of\\nforeign groups, where the word order changes in the English translation, bracket the initials, e.g. the\\nSandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN). Do not bracket initials after a first reference if you are\\nnot going to use the initials again lower in the story. Form the plural of abbreviations by adding a\\nlower-case s without an apostrophe, e.g. ICBMs not ICBM(cid:25)s or ICBMS. Do not use full stops when\\nabbreviating the names of months in datelines. The style is Jan, Feb, March, April, May, June, July,\\nAug, Sept, Oct, Nov, Dec. In tabulated lists use only the first three letters for all months, e.g. Jan,\\nJun, Jul. Abbreviate the names of months in text when they are used with a specific date, e.g. Jun.\\n19, Dec. 25. Use capital letters when abbreviating capitalised words, lower case for uncapitalised\\nphrases, e.g. ASEAN but mph, bpd.\\n\\nWords ending in a silent -e normally drop the "e" before the -able, e.g. arguable. Words ending in\\n-ce or -ge do not, e.g. changeable, ageing.\\n\\n-able\\n\\nA-bomb\\n\\nabortion\\n\\nUse atomic bomb, unless in a direct quote.\\n\\nUnless quoting someone, refer to aborted foetuses rather than unborn babies. Describe those\\ncampaigning for a woman(cid:25)s right to have an abortion as abortion rights campaigners and those\\ncampaigning against abortion rights as anti-abortion campaigners. Terms such as pro-choice,\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n112\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n113\\n\\npro-life and pro-abortion are open to dispute and should be avoided.\\n\\nAsset-backed securities: securities collateralised by assets such as car loans and credit card\\nreceivables, which can be seized if the debtor defaults. ABS are created by the process of\\nsecuritisation whereby banks pool types of loans and use them as collateral or security against a\\nbond issue.\\n\\nABS\\n\\nabscess\\n\\nacademic titles\\n\\nCapitalise when they immediately precede a personal name, otherwise use lower case, e.g.\\nProfessor John Smith.\\n\\naccept, except\\n\\nAccept is to take or receive; except is to leave out.\\n\\naccess\\n\\nDo not use as a verb.\\n\\naccessible\\n\\naccidentally, not accidently.\\n\\naccolade, not acolade.\\n\\naccommodate, not accomodate.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n113\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nAchilles(cid:25) heel, tendon\\n\\nNote apostrophe and capitalisation.\\n\\nacknowledgment, not acknowledgement.\\n\\nacolyte, not acolite.\\n\\n114\\n\\nacre\\n\\nacronyms\\n\\nacting\\n\\nactivity\\n\\nactor\\n\\nTo convert to hectares roughly multiply by 2 and divide by 5. To convert precisely multiply by 0.405.\\n\\nAvoid if at all possible. Very few are understandable at first reference. Most are only of use to a\\nspecialised audience that has seen them several times before. Where possible replace with a noun\\nsuch as the committee, the organisation, the inquiry.\\n\\nDo not capitalise before a title, acting Chairman and Chief Executive Paulo Georgio.\\n\\nThe word can often be dropped, as in sporting activity, golfing activity, leisure activity, political\\nactivity.\\n\\nactor (man), actress (woman).\\n\\nacute, chronic\\n\\nAcute is coming to a crisis, chronic is lasting a long time or deep-seated. Be specific when writing\\nabout disease or problems.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n114\\n\\n\\x0cAD\\n\\nadage\\n\\nADB\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n115\\n\\nAnno Domini (in the year of our Lord). Precedes the date, e.g. AD 73. But 234 BC (Before Christ).\\n\\nA proverb or old saying. Old adage is tautologous.\\n\\nadapter, adaptor\\n\\nAn adapter is the person who adapts something. An adaptor is a device for connecting parts of\\ndifferent sizes. American style uses adapter for both.\\n\\nAsian Development Bank. A multilateral development finance institution, with headquarters in\\nManila, dedicated to reducing poverty in Asia and the Pacific. Owned by member countries, mostly\\nfrom the region.\\n\\nadditional/in addition to\\n\\nUse more or and.\\n\\nadjectives\\n\\nUse sparingly. Inject colour into copy with strong verbs and facts, rather than adjectives. If you use\\nmore than two adjectives before a single noun then rewrite the sentence. A reader struggles with\\nThe one-eyed poverty-stricken Greek house painter. Avoid adjectives that imply judgment, e.g. a\\nhard-line speech, a glowing tribute, a staunch conservative. Depending on where they stand, some\\npeople might consider the speech moderate, the tribute fulsome or the conservative a die-hard\\nreactionary. When using an adjective and a noun together as an adjective, hyphenate them, e.g. a\\nblue-chip share, high-caste Hindus. When using an adjective and the past participle of a verb\\ntogether adjectivally, hyphenate them, e.g. old-fashioned morality, rose-tinted spectacles. Do not\\nhyphenate an adverb and adjective when they stand alone, e.g. the artist was well known. If the\\nadverb and adjective are paired to form a new adjective, they are hyphenated, e.g. a well-known\\nartist. Do not do so however if the adverb ends in -ly, e.g. a poorly planned operation.\\n\\nad-lib\\n\\nHyphenated for verb, noun and adjective.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n115\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nadministration\\n\\n116\\n\\nAlways lower case, e.g. the Bush administration. See also capitalisation.\\n\\nadmissible, inadmissible, not admissable\\n\\nAdmissions of responsibility is officialese. Did they do it or didn\\'t they?\\n\\nUse with care. If you say someone admitted something you imply that it had previously been\\nconcealed or that there is an element of guilt. Plain said is usually better.\\n\\nadmiral\\n\\nSee capitalisation.\\n\\nadmit\\n\\nad nauseam\\n\\nadoption\\n\\nRefer to a child(cid:25)s adoptive status only when the fact is clearly significant. Use the term (cid:28)birth\\nmother(cid:29) to refer to the woman who gave birth to a child, if a distinction must be made with the\\nwoman who raised the child. (cid:29)Birth father(cid:29) and (cid:28)birth parent(cid:29) are also preferred style. Do not use\\n(cid:28)real(cid:29) or (cid:28)natural(cid:29) to describe parents or children. Avoid loaded and dated phrases such as (cid:28)give\\naway a child(cid:29), (cid:28)give up for adoption(cid:29) and (cid:28)unwanted child(cid:29). (cid:28)Adoptive(cid:29) as an adjective can refer\\nto parents or the general subject of adoption. Try to describe actions instead of creating labels such\\nas (cid:28)adopted child(cid:29) e.g. (cid:28)Hollywood actress Sharon Celebrity, who gave birth to a daughter on\\nFriday, has two other children. She adopted Pixie, 4, and Tinkerbell, 2, during her previous marriage\\nto actor Tim Hunk.(cid:29) Be wary of cultural bias or value judgments in covering international adoptions\\nand disputes over parental rights involving families from different cultures or socio-economic\\nbackgrounds.\\n\\nADR\\n\\nAmerican Depositary Receipt. Certificates tradeable like shares that allow U.S. investors to buy\\nstock in an overseas company while realising capital gains and dividends in dollars.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n116\\n\\n\\x0c117\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nadrenaline, not adrenalin\\n\\nadvance, advancement\\n\\nAdvance is progress; advancement is promotion.\\n\\nadvance planning\\n\\nA tautology.\\n\\nadverbs\\n\\nLike adjectives they should be used sparingly. Avoid adverbs that imply judgment, e.g. generously,\\nharshly, and sternly. Put the adverb between the auxiliary verb and the past participle, e.g. France\\nhas already refused... not France already has refused ... However, American usage favours keeping\\nthe auxiliary verb and past participle together, with the adverb either before or after the compound\\nverb. e.g. France has refused already... or France already has refused...\\n\\nadverse, averse\\n\\nAdverse is contrary, opposed or unfavourable. Averse is disinclined to or reluctant. I am averse to\\ngo camping in adverse weather.\\n\\nadvice, advise\\n\\nAdvice is the noun, advise is the verb.\\n\\nadviser\\n\\nNot advisor.\\n\\naeroplane\\n\\naffect, effect\\n\\nUse aircraft. Do not use the U.S. term airplane. In many cases stories need the specific type of\\naircraft.\\n\\naffect is a verb meaning to influence, effect is usually a noun meaning outcome or consequence,\\ne.g. The effect of the decision will affect the company(cid:25)s decision. Effect as verb means to\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n117\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n118\\n\\naccomplish, e.g. He effected his escape with the aid of his wife. However, affect is a vague word; be\\nmore precise. Effect is usually word-spinning. He escaped... is simpler.\\n\\nAmerican Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations.\\n\\nAFL-CIO\\n\\nAfrikaner\\n\\nAfrikaans\\n\\naftermath\\n\\nAG\\n\\nA white South African, usually of Dutch descent.\\n\\nThe language spoken by Afrikaners.\\n\\nPrefer results. Use after rather than in the aftermath of.\\n\\nGerman company title: abbreviation of Aktiengesellschaft, a joint-stock company.\\n\\nAfterwards, but in American style afterward\\n\\nAggravate makes worse. Do not use in the sense of to irritate. Annoy is to cause trouble to\\nsomeone.\\n\\naggravate, annoy\\n\\nage\\n\\nUse numerals for all ages, e.g. the 6-year-old girl, the 9-year-old boy. The 66-year-old president or\\nan 18-year-old youth are fine. Avoid the 66-year-old Smith, which suggests he is being\\ndistinguished from another, 65-year-old Smith; said instead, in a simple way, Smith, who is 66, or\\njust Smith, 66,.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n118\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n119\\n\\nageing, but in American style aging\\n\\naged, elderly\\n\\nAvoid, because the terms are always relative. In some societies a 50-year-old is already aged. In\\nothers a sprightly 90-year-old who has just written a novel or run a marathon would object to being\\ncalled aged or elderly.\\n\\nAcquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The\\nterm AIDS applies to the most advanced stages of HIV infection. The initials AIDS and HIV are used\\nat first reference with the full name given lower in the story. Do not write HIV virus, which is\\nredundant. See medical stories on the need for caution in handling stories about reputed cures for\\nAIDS.\\n\\nAgenda singular, agendas plural.\\n\\nagenda\\n\\nAGM\\n\\nAIDS\\n\\nUse annual meeting.\\n\\nair base\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nAirbus\\n\\naircraft\\n\\nOne word, capitalised, unhyphenated.\\n\\nPrefer to plane. Most airliners and military aircraft are jets so there is normally no need to specify\\nthat an aircraft is a jet. Warplane (cid:19) is one word. Do not use the American term airplane or the term\\nfighter jet. Capitalise but do not put in quotation marks the names of aircraft, e.g. Concorde,\\nFlogger, Tomcat. When the number designating an aircraft is preceded by a letter or letters,\\nhyphenate, e.g. Boeing 747 but DC-10, F-111. Be specific when giving aircraft models in economic\\nstories because there are cost differences, e.g. Boeing 747-400 not just Boeing 747. Use makers(cid:25)\\nnames in the form given in Jane(cid:25)s All the World(cid:25)s Aircraft, e.g. MiG-21. Give numerals for aircraft\\nspeeds, e.g. Mach 1 not Mach one. Aircraft names use a hyphen when changing from letters to\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n119\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n120\\n\\nfigures, no hyphen when adding a letter to figures, eg F-15 Eagle/747B, but Airbus 3000 is an\\nexception.\\n\\nair fare\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nair force\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nAir Force One\\n\\nAir France-KLM\\n\\nNote hyphen\\n\\nairlift\\n\\nairlines\\n\\nair raid\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nair strike\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nThis is the radio call sign of any fixed-wing aircraft used by the president of the United States. The\\nU.S. Marine Corps is responsible for presidential helicopter support. Marine One is the radio call\\nsign of any helicopter used by the president.\\n\\nDo not use as a synonym for fly, e.g. The injured man was airlifted to hospital. Reserve it for shuttle\\nservices, e.g. The United States airlifted 50,000 troops to the Gulf.\\n\\nAirlines vary widely in their use of air line(s), airline(s) or airways as part of their name. Check the\\nspelling on the company(cid:25)s Web site.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n120\\n\\n\\x0calibi\\n\\nAl Jazeera\\n\\nal Qaeda\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n121\\n\\nNot a synonym for an excuse. It means a claim to have been elsewhere at the time of an offence.\\n\\nQatar television station. Use upper case A and no hyphen since this is how the broadcaster\\ndescribes itself in English. Refer to as an Arab news channel broadcasting in Arabic and in English.\\n\\nCreated by Osama bin Laden in the late 1980s, al Qaeda ("The Base") is a militant movement that\\nsupports violent attacks on the West, Israel and governments in Muslim countries allied to the West\\nthat it believes prevent the creation of a \\'pure\\' Islamic world. The movement became more diffuse\\nafter the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 and some key figures were captured or killed.\\nHowever, new wings have emerged in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and North Africa.\\n\\nNow the term al Qaeda is used by different people to mean different things. When authorities speak\\nabout an "al Qaeda plot", we should try to pin down whether they mean it was ordered and directed\\nby "core al Qaeda" or generally inspired by the anti-Western ideology of bin Laden.\\n\\nUse in the open air, or outdoors.\\n\\nalbino, albinos\\n\\nalfresco\\n\\nalias\\n\\nall right\\n\\nNot alright.\\n\\nall rounder\\n\\nTwo words, e.g. a cricketer who bats and bowls.\\n\\nRefers only to assumption of a false name, not an entire false identity or profession.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n121\\n\\n\\x0c122\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nAll Saints\\' Day\\n\\nNovember 1. Note apostrophe.\\n\\nall-time, all time\\n\\nAllahu akbar\\n\\nallege\\n\\nallot, allotting, allotted\\n\\nallude, refer\\n\\nallusion, illusion\\n\\nAlmaty\\n\\nalmost exactly\\n\\nIt is either exact, or not.\\n\\nThe greatest singer of all time, but an all-time low. Do not write an all-time record. It is simply a\\nrecord. Always ensure superlatives such as all-time high are checked and sourced..\\n\\nGod is Greatest (not, as often written, God is Great), a common Muslim rallying cry. Also chanted\\nwhen Muslims perform their five daily prayers.\\n\\nAvoid. Do not report allegations without saying who made them. Use of the word alleged before a\\ndefamatory statement does not provide immunity against an action for libel. Do not use allegedly.\\n\\nAllude means to refer to in passing without making an explicit mention. Refer means to mention\\ndirectly. He alluded to the sins of his past and referred to his criminal record.\\n\\nAllusion is a reference in passing. Illusion is a false impression or a delusion.\\n\\nNot Alma-Ata. The biggest city in Kazakhstan and the country\\'s commercial hub. The capital was\\nshifted to Astana in 1997.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n122\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n123\\n\\nlower case, except for Alpine skiing.\\n\\nalpine\\n\\naltar, alter\\n\\naltercation\\n\\nAltar is a table used for religious services. Alter is to change. They altered the altar to make it fit the\\nchurch.\\n\\nAn altercation is an argument or heated exchange of words, not a fight.\\n\\nalternate, alternative\\n\\nAlternate means that A and B take turns, alternative that you have a choice between A and B. There\\ncan only be two alternatives. Any more and you face choices, options or possibilities.\\n\\naltitudes\\n\\nConvert metres to feet not yards when giving altitudes.\\n\\nAluminium\\n\\nBut aluminum in American style.\\n\\nalumnus (man) alumna (woman) alumni (plural)\\n\\nA progressive, incurable and disabling disease leading to severe dementia. Although it usually\\noccurs in elderly people it is not synonymous with dementia or senility.\\n\\nAlzheimer(cid:25)s disease\\n\\na.m.\\n\\nTime, e.g. 6 a.m., 6:45 a.m.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n123\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n124\\n\\nAM\\n\\nThe amplitude modulation method of radio transmission.\\n\\nambassador\\n\\nUse for a man or a woman.\\n\\nambience, not ambiance.\\n\\nAmerican\\n\\nAs a noun this may be used to describe a U.S. citizen.\\n\\nAmerican Indian\\n\\nAcceptable but Native American (capitalised) is preferred, bearing in mind that this includes e.g.\\nInuit who are not Indians. Where possible, be more specific and give the name of the tribe (eg.\\nNavajo, Cherokee). See race\\n\\nAmerican spelling\\n\\nThere are two generally accepted spelling systems for the English language. Our global client base\\nare accustomed to reading both. Copy orginating in the Americas should follow North American\\nspelling conventions, such as color, defense, aging, caliber, etc. Copy orginating elsewhere should\\nfollow British spelling norms. At all times stick to official spellings for American names and titles,\\nsuch as U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and\\nPrevention. Watch out for regional words that non-English language services and clients will find\\ndifficult to understand and translate. In American sports coverage, use American terms and\\nspellings e.g. center, maneuver, defense, offense, ballclub, postseason, preseason, lineman, line\\nup, halfback, doubleheader.\\n\\nAmericas\\n\\nIncludes South Amercian states.\\n\\nAmerica\\'s Cup\\n\\nThe sailing trophy, named after the yacht America, takes an apostrophe.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n124\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n125\\n\\namid\\n\\nNot amidst. However, amid is a sign of thoughtless writing; there is always a better way to express\\nthis.\\n\\namok, not amock or amuck.\\n\\namong, between\\n\\nBetween is restricted to two choices or two parties. Among is for several options or parties. Use\\nbetween in referring to bilateral contacts e.g. relations between France and Germany. Use among\\nfor a collective linkage, e.g. relations among the NATO states. Be careful to use between if there\\nare just two groups to choose from, even though it looks like several. It was hard to decide between\\na touring holiday in France, Belgium and Spain or in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. It was hard to\\ndecide among a holiday in France, in Belgium or in Spain.\\n\\nampersand\\n\\nDo not use, instead use \\'and\\' in full, even in company names.\\n\\nanaemia, anaemic but anemia, anemic is American style.\\n\\nDo not use analysts alone, buyt qualify -- policitical analysts, stokc market analysts.\\n\\nOne from whome someone is descended. Do not use to mean predecessor.\\n\\nanalog, not analogue\\n\\nanalysts\\n\\nancestor\\n\\nand\\n\\nDo not start a sentence with \\'and\\'.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n125\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n126\\n\\nannex\\n\\nNot annexe, for both verb and noun.\\n\\nannual meeting\\n\\nanother\\n\\nLower case. For companies use annual meeting rather than annual general meeting.\\n\\nAvoid when you are trying to say additional or extra. It should be used only when referring to things\\nof the same type, size and number. Two teams were at full strength; another two were short of\\nplayers. In most instances it can simply be omitted. Three men died in the crash and three were\\ninjured.\\n\\nAntarctic, Antarctica\\n\\nNot Antartic.\\n\\nantennae, antennas\\n\\nAntennae are insect feelers. Antennas are aerials.\\n\\nAnti-Ballistic Missile Treaty\\n\\nABM Treaty on second reference.\\n\\nanticipate, expect\\n\\nHyphenate in most cases. Antitrust is an exception..\\n\\nanti-\\n\\nantitrust\\n\\nThese are not synonyms. If you anticipate something, you not only expect it but take precautionary\\naction to deal with it.\\n\\nOne word. Largely an American term that refers to government policy or law that restrains\\nmonopolistic or anti-competitive behaviour by businesses. The term originated in late 19th century\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n126\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n127\\n\\nUnited States where businesses were often merged into large industry wide holding companies or\\ntrusts.\\n\\nAnxious means uneasy with fear or desire. Prefer eager if the promised experience is desirable. I\\nam anxious about going to the dentist but eager to go the party.\\n\\naneurysm\\n\\nNot aneurism.\\n\\nanxious, eager\\n\\nany more\\n\\nTwo words\\n\\nanything\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nanywhere\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nAPEC\\n\\nanyone, any one\\n\\napostolic delegate\\n\\nSee Roman Catholic Church.\\n\\nAnyone can do that, but any one among them is guilty. When it is two words the emphasis is on the\\nsecond word. Similarly with anybody and any body.\\n\\nAsia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, aimed at promoting regional trade and economic co-operation.\\n21 members.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n127\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\napostrophes\\n\\n128\\n\\napostrophes: Use the apostrophe according to the following rules, unless to do so would lead to a\\nword that looked or sounded very strange.\\n\\nSingular words and plural words not ending in s form the possessive by adding (cid:24)s, e.g. Boeing(cid:25)s\\nnew airliner, the children(cid:25)s books. Plural words already ending in s form the possessive by adding\\nthe apostrophe alone, e.g. the soldiers(cid:25) weapons. There is usually no problem about using the\\napostrophe with words ending in s. the class(cid:25)s performance, the princesses(cid:25) return, Shultz(cid:25)s car\\nare all acceptable because they can be pronounced easily. Some words would look or sound so\\nodd, e.g. Paris(cid:25)s reputation, Tunis(cid:25)s main prison or Woolworths(cid:25)s results that it best to write your\\nway out of trouble. Recast such phrases, e.g. the son of the Dukasises, the reputation of Paris, the\\nmain prison in Tunis and results from Woolworths. Companies which end in s like Qantas or Optus\\nmight also appear ugly with the (cid:24)s possessive. The best option is to avoid if possible. Reuters does\\nnot take an apostrophe, the only exception being in connection with the founder(cid:25)s name, e.g.\\nReuter(cid:25)s birthplace in Kassel. Note that it(cid:25)s is a contraction of it is. The possessive form of it is its.\\nDo not use an apostrophe in for example the 1990s or abbreviations such as NCOs. Joint\\npossession: use the possessive form only after the last word if ownership is joint, e.g. Fred and\\nSylvia\\'s apartment, but the possessive of both words if the objects and individually owned, e.g.\\nFred\\'s And Sylvia\\'s books.\\n\\nappeal\\n\\nThe verb takes a preposition. You appeal against a decision, not appeal a decision.\\n\\nappraise, apprise\\n\\nAppraise is to set a value on or to price, apprise is to inform.\\n\\nIncrease in an asset\\'s value, as opposed to depreciation\\n\\nappreciation\\n\\napproximately\\n\\nAbout is shorter and simpler. So is almost or nearly.\\n\\nApril Fool\\'s Day\\n\\nOne fool and one day, but All Fools(cid:25) Day.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n128\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nArab names\\n\\n129\\n\\nReuters style is to end Arab names in i rather than y (Ali not Aly, Gaddafi not Gaddafy). The words\\nal and el both mean the. They are usually in lower case and followed by a hyphen. We prefer al- to\\nel- but should use el- if that is how the person spells his or her name in English. In personal names\\nstarting al- or el- include the particle only at first reference, e.g. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad at\\nfirst reference, thereafter Assad. In place and other names the particle is retained at second\\nreference, e.g. al-Arish, (the newspaper) al-Akhbar. Particles that go in lower case are ait\\n(Mohamed ait Atta) bin and bint (Aziza bint Ahmed), ben (Ahmed ben Bella), bar, bou and ould\\n(Moktar ould Daddah). See also sheikh.\\n\\narbitrator, arbiter, mediator\\n\\nAn arbitrator or arbiter is appointed to make a decision and hand down a ruling. A mediator tries to\\nproduce a compromise agreed by both parties in a dispute.\\n\\narchaeology, but American style is archeology\\n\\nArctic Sea, Arctic Circle\\n\\nBut arctic wind, arctic cold.\\n\\nArgentina, Argentine\\n\\nNot the Argentine as a noun or Argentinian as an adjective.\\n\\nDo not use for unpleasant smells. It means a spicy fragrance or something with particular charm. It\\nmakes no sense to write the aroma of defeat.\\n\\nA fleet of armed ships. Do not use for a collection of pleasure boats.\\n\\naroma\\n\\narmada\\n\\narmy\\n\\nNever capitalised when referring to the service as a whole, e.g. the U.S. army, the French army.\\nExceptions are armies that have a unique name, e.g. the Palestine Liberation Army, the Red Army.\\nCapitalise army when referring to a specific formation, e.g. the U.S. 1st Army, the British 8th Army.\\nUse figures for military units: 1st Army not First Army. However, American style capitalises all\\nreferences to U.S. forces (cid:19) U.S. Army, the Army, Army regulations.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n129\\n\\n\\x0caround\\n\\narrest\\n\\nas\\n\\nas, like\\n\\nASEAN\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n130\\n\\nUse about for approximation -- about 30, not around 30.\\n\\nartefact,but American style is artifact\\n\\nto avoid prejudging the issue, do not say arrested for murder, say arrested on a charge of murder;\\nsee also allege.\\n\\nAn overused conjunction, especially in leads, to link two developments that may have only a distant\\nconnection and may occur in different time frames, e.g. Jones issued new threats against Ruritania\\nas Brown considered his options in the region. Use with restraint, preferably when actions are both\\ncontemporaneous and closely linked, e.g. Smith leaped out of the window as Jones kicked down\\nthe door. As substitutes use and, when, because.\\n\\nAs compares verbs, like compares nouns. He fought as a hero should, but he acted like a hero.\\n\\nAssociation of South East Asian Nations, which groups Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos,\\nMalaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. See www.aseansec.org\\n\\nAsian subcontinent\\n\\nUse South Asia for the region that includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri\\nLanka.\\n\\nassassin, assassination\\n\\nRestrict to the killing of a prominent person for political motives.\\n\\nassert\\n\\nIt can mean to vindicate, so use with care. Plain said is better.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n130\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n131\\n\\nThe capital of Kazakhstan. Almaty was the capital until 1997.\\n\\nAstana\\n\\nAsiatic\\n\\nUse Asian.\\n\\nat the present time, at this time\\n\\nUse now.\\n\\nathlete(cid:25)s foot\\n\\nattache\\n\\nNot a formal title: lower case.\\n\\nattempt\\n\\nTry is shorter, better\\n\\nATM\\n\\naudiovisual\\n\\nOne word, no hyphen.\\n\\naugur, auger\\n\\nAustralian Labor Party\\n\\n(not Labour)\\n\\nAutomated teller machine, but spell out later. ATM machine is tautologous.\\n\\nAugur is a soothsayer, or to foretell by signs. It augurs success. Auger is a carpenter(cid:25)s tool for\\nboring.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n131\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nAutarchy, autarky\\n\\n132\\n\\nAutarchy means absolute power and autarky is self-sufficiency. Use plain words instead to remove\\nthe confusion.\\n\\nMan or woman. As a verb use write.\\n\\nauthor\\n\\nautomaker\\n\\nauxiliary, not auxilliary.\\n\\naverages\\n\\nOne word (American usage). Also steelmaker, toymaker, drugmaker etc. Similarly autoworkers,\\nsteelworkers, etc.\\n\\nPlace the word average where it correctly qualifies the item or quantity intended, e.g. Reporters\\ndrink an average of six cups of coffee a day. (Not: the average reporter drinks six cups of coffee a\\nday). There are three types:(most often used) is calculated by adding all the constituent parts\\ntogether and dividing by the number of parts.The middle value, meaning the number of values\\nabove it is the same as the number below it. The most commonly occurring value.\\n\\nAverage takes a singular or plural verb according to what it refers. The average age is 24, but an\\naverage of three men die each day.\\n\\nAfrican Union (Addis Ababa). See www.africa-union.org\\n\\nAU\\n\\naverse\\n\\nSee adverse, averse.\\n\\nawakened\\n\\nPrefer this form to awoken or awaked or awoke.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n132\\n\\n\\x0c133\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nawe-struck\\n\\nawhile, a while\\n\\nI will rest awhile, or I will rest for a while.\\n\\naxe, axed, axeing; but American style is ax, axed, axing\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n133\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n134\\n\\nB\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Baath Party\\n2 baby boomer\\n3 baby sitter, baby-sit, baby-sitting, baby-sat\\n4 baccalaureate\\n5 back of\\n6 backhand\\n7 backlash\\n8 backwardation\\n9 backwards, but American style is backward\\n10 backyard\\n11 bacterium, bacteria\\n12 bad news, good news\\n13 Baha(cid:25)i\\n14 Bahamas\\n15 Bahrain\\n16 bail, bale\\n17 bailout\\n18 bait, bate\\n19 Bakhtaran\\n20 balance of payments.\\n21 balance of trade\\n22 balk, not baulk\\n23 ballot, balloted\\n24 ballroom, ballpark, ballplayer\\n25 banister, not bannister.\\n26 bankruptcy\\n27 Bank of China\\n28 Baptist, baptist\\n29 barbecue, not barbeque or bar-b-q\\n30 bar mitzvah, bat mitzvah\\n31 barrel\\n32 barrel, barrelled, barrelling, but American style is barrel, barreled,\\nbarreling\\n33 barrel-chested, barrel-house, barrel-organ\\n34 barroom\\n35 Basel\\n36 basically\\n37 basis\\n38 basis point\\n39 Basra\\n40 battalion\\n41 battle\\n42 battledress\\n43 bayonet, bayoneted\\n44 BC\\n45 be with a present participle\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n134\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n135\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 because\\n47 Bedouin\\n48 beg the question\\n49 Beige Book\\n50 Beijing\\n51 beleaguered\\n52 believed\\n53 bellwether\\n54 Belarus, not Belorussia\\n55 Benares\\n56 benefit, benefited\\n57 Benelux\\n58 bereft\\n59 beriberi\\n60 Berlin Wall.\\n61 Bermuda shorts, Bermuda Triangle, Bermuda rig\\n62 Bermudian\\n63 beside, besides\\n64 besiege, not beseige.\\n65 berserk, not beserk.\\n66 best seller, not bestseller.\\n67 bettor\\n68 between, among\\n69 bias, biased.\\n70 biannual, biennial\\n71 Bible, bible\\n72 biblical\\n73 bid, in a bid to\\n74 bight, bite\\n75 billion\\n76 bimonthly, semimonthly\\n77 bin Laden\\n78 bird\\n79 birdie, birdies\\n80 BIS\\n81 biweekly\\n82 black\\n83 black box\\n84 blame\\n85 blast off, blastoff\\n86 blazon, blaze\\n87 blind\\n88 blitzkrieg\\n89 bloc, block\\n90 blockbuster\\n91 blond, blonde\\n92 blue blood\\n93 blueprint\\n94 B(cid:25)nai B(cid:25)rith\\n95 bogey, bogie, bogy\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n135\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n136\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n96 bond\\n97 bondholder\\n98 Bombay\\n99 bona fide\\n100 book titles\\n101 bored with\\n102 born, borne\\n103 Bosporus, not Bosphorus\\n104 both\\n105 boss\\n106 Botswana\\n107 boy\\n108 Boy Scouts\\n109 boycott, embargo\\n110 brackets\\n111 Braille\\n112 brand names\\n113 breach, breech\\n114 break in\\n115 break point\\n116 breast-stroke\\n117 Brent\\n118 Britain\\n119 British Isles\\n120 British spelling\\n121 broach, brooch\\n122 broccoli\\n123 broken quotes\\n124 brownout\\n125 BSE\\n126 Buddha, Buddhism\\n127 budget, budgeted\\n128 buffalo\\n129 buildup\\n130 bull\\'s-eye\\n131 bungee jump\\n132 buoyant\\n133 bureau\\n134 burgeoning\\n135 burglary\\n136 Burma\\n137 Burmese names\\n138 burnt, or burned in American style\\n139 burqa\\n140 bus, buses, busing\\n141 bushel\\n142 but\\n143 by\\n144 Byelorussia\\n145 Byzantine\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n136\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nBaath Party\\n\\n137\\n\\nThe pan-Arab political party that has ruled Syria since 1963. Its rival Iraq branch was led by\\nSaddam Hussein and is now believed to be highly active in the insurgency since the 2003 U.S.-led\\ninvasion.\\n\\nBaathist An individual or group loyal to the Baath Party.\\n\\nbaby sitter, baby-sit, baby-sitting, baby-sat\\n\\nbaby boomer\\n\\nbaccalaureate\\n\\nback of\\n\\nPrefer behind.\\n\\nbackhand\\n\\nbacklash\\n\\nbackwardation\\n\\nOne word when used to describe a tennis or badminton stroke.\\n\\nAvoid. It is more effective to describe what happened and why.\\n\\nIn commodity markets, backwardation is a situation where the cash or near delivery price rises\\nabove the price for forward delivery. The forward price is normally higher than the cash price to\\nreflect the added costs of storage and insurance for stocks deliverable at a later date. The opposite\\nof backwardation is contango.\\n\\nbackwards, but American style is backward\\n\\nbackyard\\n\\nOne word as noun or adjective.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n137\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nbacterium, bacteria\\n\\nbad news, good news\\n\\nOne bacterium, several bacteria. Do not confuse with a virus. Antibiotics are not used to treat\\nviruses.\\n\\n138\\n\\nAvoid suggesting this in stories. There is no bad or good news for a market since it contains both\\nbuyers and sellers.\\n\\nAn adherent of a religion founded by the 19th-century Persian prophet Bahaullah. Note apostrophe.\\nSee religious terms\\n\\nA native of the Bahamas is a Bahamian not a Bahaman.\\n\\nUse MANAMA, Bahrain, as the dateline.\\n\\nYou bail out a boat or a company in difficulties, but bale out of an aircraft. You post bail in a court.\\nHowever, American style is bail for both bailing out a boat and bailing out of an aircraft.\\n\\nBaha(cid:25)i\\n\\nBahamas\\n\\nBahrain\\n\\nbail, bale\\n\\nbailout\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nbait, bate\\n\\nUse bait on a hook and wait with bated breath to catch a fish.\\n\\nBakhtaran\\n\\nNot Kermanshah, Iran.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n138\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nbalance of payments.\\n\\n139\\n\\nA summary record of a country\\'s net international economic transactions including trade, services,\\ncapital movements and unilateral transfers.\\n\\nMonetary record of a country\\'s net imports and exports of physical merchandise. It can be negative,\\nshowing that a country is importing more than it exports, or positive, showing it exports more than it\\nimports.\\n\\nbalance of trade\\n\\nbalk, not baulk\\n\\nballot, balloted\\n\\nballroom, ballpark, ballplayer\\n\\nbanister, not bannister.\\n\\nbankruptcy\\n\\nA company becomes formally bankrupt or insolvent when a court rules it is unable to meet its debts.\\nThe ruling may be sought by the company concerned (voluntary) or by creditors. In England, the\\ncourt appoints an official receiver to manage and eventually realise the debtor(cid:25)s assets on behalf of\\nthe creditors. Terms such as bankruptcy, insolvency and liquidation have different legal meanings in\\ndifferent countries. Be as precise as possible in reporting what a company or court says, especially\\nif a translation is involved. For example, in France the normal form of bankruptcy is faillite; the term\\nbanquerote refers to fraudulent bankruptcy and thewre is a danger if they are confused. Similarly, in\\nGermany a collapse known as Bankrott is more serious than a normal liquidation.\\n\\nIn the United States, a company or individual is designated bankrupt when a court enters an order\\nfor relief in either a Chapter 11 reorganisation or Chapter 7 liquidation case. They may become\\nbankrupt by virtue of a voluntary filing on their own behalf, or an involuntary filing by a required\\nnumber of creditors. Applications under bankruptcy rules may be technical manoeuvres and could\\nlead to libel actions if misinterpreted. Business collapses are often progressive rather than sudden.\\nOver-colourful reporting that implies the situation is hopeless may lead to legal problems if the\\ncompany recovers and claims the reports were false and damaging.\\n\\nBank of China\\n\\nThis is a commercial bank, not the central bank. The People\\'s Bank of China is the central bank.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n139\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nBaptist, baptist\\n\\n140\\n\\nA baptist is someone who baptises. A Baptist is a member of the Protestant denomination. With\\nmore than 20 separate Baptist church groups in the United States, it is incorrect to refer to the\\nBaptist Church as a singular entity. The correct reference would be to Baptist Churches or to the\\nspecific Baptist group involved, e.g. the Southern Baptist Convention.\\n\\nbarbecue, not barbeque or bar-b-q\\n\\nbar mitzvah, bat mitzvah\\n\\nLower case. Use bar for males and bat for females.\\n\\nbarrel\\n\\nVolume measurement of liquid in the petroleum industry, equal to 42 U.S. gallons, 35 Imperial\\ngallons or about 0.136 tonnes, depending on specific gravity. Barrels per day (bpd) is a measure of\\nthe flow of crude oil production from a field or producing company or a country.\\n\\nbarrel, barrelled, barrelling, but American style is barrel, barreled,\\nbarreling\\n\\nbarrel-chested, barrel-house, barrel-organ\\n\\nbarroom\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nBasel\\n\\nbasically\\n\\nNot Basle, Switzerland.\\n\\nAdds nothing to the meaning or strength of writing. Expunge.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n140\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n141\\n\\nOn the basis of, on a voluntary basis etc. There is always a shorter and stronger way to express\\nsuch ideas.\\n\\nThe movement of interest rates or yields expressed in hundredths of a percent, so 0.50 percent is\\n50 basis points.\\n\\nThey battled against poverty, or battled with poverty, not battled poverty. Fought is shorter.\\n\\nbasis\\n\\nbasis point\\n\\nBasra\\n\\nNot Basrah, Iraq.\\n\\nbattalion\\n\\nbattle\\n\\nbattledress\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nbayonet, bayoneted\\n\\nBC\\n\\nBefore Christ. Write 55 BC, but AD 73.\\n\\nbe with a present participle\\n\\nbecause\\n\\nDo not replace with since or as.\\n\\nThere is always a stronger form of the verb. He will be coming/he will come, she will be sewing/she\\nwill sew.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n141\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n142\\n\\nBedouin\\n\\nA desert Arab. Same in singular and plural.\\n\\nbeg the question\\n\\nA misused cliche. It does not mean to prompt an inquiry, but to assume what needs to be proved, or\\nmore loosely to evade the question.\\n\\nA survey of the outlook for the U.S. economy published eight times a year by the Federal Reserve\\nBoard. Also known as the Tan Book.\\n\\nNot beleagered. Try to use a shorter word.\\n\\nBeliefs must be sourced. Do not write, (cid:28)John Smith was believed to have been killed in an\\nambush.(cid:29) Say who believes and why.\\n\\nBeige Book\\n\\nBeijing\\n\\nNot Peking, China.\\n\\nbeleaguered\\n\\nbelieved\\n\\nbellwether\\n\\nThe lead sheep in a flock. Not bellweather.\\n\\nBelarus, not Belorussia\\n\\nIts people are Belarussians.\\n\\nBenares\\n\\nUse Varanasi, India.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n142\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nbenefit, benefited\\n\\n143\\n\\nBelgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Explain the term in stories.\\n\\nBereft comes from bereave and means robbed of or deprived. If you are bereft of friends they have\\nall gone away. You are not just lonely because you never had any friends.\\n\\nBenelux\\n\\nbereft\\n\\nberiberi\\n\\nBerlin Wall.\\n\\nBermudian\\n\\nA disease caused by vitamin deficiency. One word.\\n\\nBermuda shorts, Bermuda Triangle, Bermuda rig\\n\\nNot Bermudan for the inhabitant, but prefer Bermuda as the adjective.\\n\\nbeside, besides\\n\\nBeside is near or by the side of. Besides is in addition to.\\n\\nbesiege, not beseige.\\n\\nberserk, not beserk.\\n\\nbest seller, not bestseller.\\n\\nbettor\\n\\nNot widely used outside the Americas. Prefer gambler. (American style)\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n143\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nbetween, among\\n\\n144\\n\\nBetween is restricted to two choices or two parties. Among is for several options or parties. Use\\nbetween in referring to bilateral contacts e.g. relations between France and Germany. Use among\\nfor a collective linkage, e.g. relations among the NATO states. Be careful to use between if there\\nare just two groups to choose from, even though it looks like several. It was hard to decide between\\na touring holiday in France, Belgium and Spain or in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. It was hard to\\ndecide among a holiday in France, in Belgium or in Spain.\\n\\nNo hyphen. It(cid:25)s clearer to write twice-yearly instead of biannual, and every two years rather than\\nbiennial.\\n\\nUpper case when referring to the book itself. Lower case when used as a metaphor.\\n\\nSloppy and verbose. Can usually be removed by rewriting, or replaced with an active verb such as\\ntried to or attempted.\\n\\nBight is a wide bay or a coil. You bite with your teeth.\\n\\nIn Reuters services billion means one thousand million. The word billion must be spelled out,\\nalthough it can be abbreviated to bln if necessary in headlines. Always use figures before million\\nand billion, e.g. 2 billion, 3 million. When reporting a range of figures, use the style 1.2 billion to 1.4\\nbillion not 1.2-1.4 billion. See also figures, trillion.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n144\\n\\nbias, biased.\\n\\nbiannual, biennial\\n\\nBible, bible\\n\\nbiblical\\n\\nNot Biblical.\\n\\nbid, in a bid to\\n\\nbight, bite\\n\\nbillion\\n\\n\\x0cAvoid. Write every other month for bimonthly and twice a month for semimonthly.\\n\\n145\\n\\nOsama bin Laden. Use bin Laden at second reference. He is now stripped of Saudi citizenship so\\nrefer to as Saudi-born.\\n\\nA bird is an animal, so birds and mammals or birds and reptiles, not birds and animals.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nbimonthly, semimonthly\\n\\nbin Laden\\n\\nbird\\n\\nBIS\\n\\nbirdie, birdies\\n\\nOne stroke under par in golf.\\n\\nbiweekly\\n\\nblack\\n\\nblack box\\n\\nBank for International Settlements, an international organisation that fosters international monetary\\nand financial co-operation and serves as a bank for central banks and international financial\\norganisations. The Basel Committee of the BIS sets standards and guidelines for best banking\\npractice. See www.bis.org\\n\\nThis can mean twice a week or once every two weeks. So avoid it.\\n\\nFine as an adjective, eg "Obama will be the first black U.S. president". As a noun, the plural is\\nacceptable where it might contrast with another group, eg doctors found differences between the\\ntreatment offered to whites and blacks. Do not use black as a singular noun -- it is both awkward\\nand offensive. "Barack Obama would be the first black to become U.S. president" is unacceptable.\\nBetter to say "Barack Obama will become the first black U.S. president". See race\\n\\nPopular term for aircraft recording equipment. Although they are not in fact black, the term can be\\nused if it is made clear that the reference is to a plane(cid:25)s flight recorder or its flight-deck voice\\nrecorder.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n145\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n146\\n\\nblame\\n\\nTreat with cation. In accidents, apportioning blame can cause legal problems. Strong sourcing is\\nrequired here\\n\\nblast off, blastoff\\n\\nOne word for the noun and two words for the verb.\\n\\nYou blazon, or ostentatiously display, your wealth, and blaze a trail.\\n\\nDescribe people as blind only if they are totally without sight. Otherwise write that their sight is\\nimpaired or that they have only partial vision.\\n\\nGerman for lightning war or violent attack. Use the short form blitz only for heavy air attacks.\\n\\nA bloc is a combination of units, parties or nations. A block is a lump.\\n\\nUse sparingly, unless you have figures to support profit, return on investment etc.\\n\\nblond for a man, blonde for a woman. But the adjective is always blond.\\n\\nblue blood\\n\\nNoun; blue-blooded is the adjective.\\n\\nblazon, blaze\\n\\nblind\\n\\nblitzkrieg\\n\\nbloc, block\\n\\nblockbuster\\n\\nblond, blonde\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n146\\n\\n\\x0c147\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nblueprint\\n\\nTired cliche. Use plan or proposal.\\n\\nB(cid:25)nai B(cid:25)rith\\n\\nbogey, bogie, bogy\\n\\nA Jewish service and community organisation. Note apostrophes.\\n\\nBogey is a golf term, meaning one stroke above par for a hole. A bogie is a trolley. A bogy is a\\nbugbear or a special object of dread, hence bogyman.\\n\\nA bond is a legal contract in which a government, company or institution (the borrower) issues a\\ncertificate, which promises to pay holders a specific rate of interest for a fixed duration and then\\nredeem the contract at face value on maturity.\\n\\nUse Mumbai unless it is a proper name e.g. The Bombay Stock Exchange. Similarly we use\\nChennai (not Madras) and Kolkata (not Calcutta).\\n\\nBooks, films, plays, poems, operas, songs and works of art: capitalise every word in the title apart\\nfrom conjunctions, articles, particles and short prepositions, e.g. (cid:28)The Rise and Fall of the Third\\nReich(cid:29), (cid:28)The Merchant of Venice(cid:29), (cid:28)Gone with the Wind(cid:29).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n147\\n\\nbond\\n\\nbondholder\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nBombay\\n\\nbona fide\\n\\nAvoid.\\n\\nbook titles\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n148\\n\\nbored with\\n\\nNot bored of.\\n\\nborn, borne\\n\\nboth\\n\\nboss\\n\\nHe was born on Tuesday (passive). She has borne 10 children (active) and borne the burden of\\nraising them.\\n\\nBosporus, not Bosphorus\\n\\nBoth sides agreed is tautology, as is They both went to the same play. Write They went to the same\\nplay.\\n\\nThis word has pejorative or slang connotations and should not be used in serious contexts, e.g. A\\npresidential aide said his boss... Mafia bosses would be permissible and the word can be used in an\\ninformal context, e.g. Bill Smith said he was sick of correcting his boss(cid:25)s spelling. It is acceptable in\\nsports stories as an alternative to manager or coach.\\n\\nBotswana\\n\\nIts people are Batswana (sing. and pl.).\\n\\nboy\\n\\nAny male over 18 is a man.\\n\\nBoy Scouts\\n\\nNow just Scouts.\\n\\nboycott, embargo\\n\\nA boycott is the refusal of a group to deal with a person or use a commodity. An embargo is a legal\\nban on trade.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n148\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nbrackets\\n\\n149\\n\\nIf an entire sentence is in brackets, put the full stop (period) inside the closing bracket, e.g. (\\n...reported earlier.) If a sentence has a bracketed section at the end, the full stop goes outside the\\nclosing bracket, e.g. -reported earlier). If a bracketed section in the middle of a sentence is followed\\nby a comma, it also goes outside the bracket.\\n\\nA brand is a symbol or word registered by a manufacturer and protected by law to prevent others\\nfrom using it. Use a generic equivalent unless the brand name is important to the story. When used,\\nfollow the owner(cid:25)s capitalisation, e.g. Aspro not aspro but aspirin.\\n\\nBreach is a break, breech is the lower part. A breach in the wall, but a breech birth.\\n\\nBraille\\n\\nCapitalised.\\n\\nbrand names\\n\\nbreach, breech\\n\\nbreak in\\n\\nVerb; break-in is the noun.\\n\\nbreak point\\n\\nTwo words in tennis scoring.\\n\\nbreast-stroke\\n\\nBrent\\n\\nBritain\\n\\nBrent blend is a benchmark crude oil from the British North Sea against which other crude oils are\\npriced.\\n\\nDo not use England as a synonym for Britain or the United Kingdom. Britain comprises England,\\nScotland and Wales. The United Kingdom comprises Britain and Northern Ireland. Use Britain\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n149\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nunless the Irish context is important.\\n\\nBritish Isles\\n\\n150\\n\\nA geographical, not political term. They comprise the United Kingdom, islands under the British\\nCrown such as the Channel Islands and Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland.\\n\\nBritish spelling\\n\\nThere are two generally accepted spelling systems for the English language. Our global client base\\nare accustomed to reading both. Copy orginating in the Americas should follow North American\\nspelling conventions, such as color, defense, aging, caliber, etc. Copy orginating elsewhere should\\nfollow British spelling norms. At all times stick to official spellings for American names and titles,\\nsuch as U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and U.S. Centres for Disease Control and\\nPrevention. Watch out for regional words that non-English language services and clients will find\\ndifficult to understand and translate. In American sports coverage, use American terms and\\nspellings e.g. center, maneuver, defense, offense, ballclub, postseason, preseason, lineman, line\\nup, halfback, doubleheader.\\n\\nBroach is to pierce or open up. Brooch is an ornamental clasp.\\n\\nbroach, brooch\\n\\nbroccoli\\n\\nbroken quotes\\n\\nbrownout\\n\\nBSE\\n\\nDo not use if the words quoted are not contentious e.g. He said she was a great soldier. Use if the\\nlanguage is inflammatory or colourful e.g. She said he was a (cid:28)stinking, rotten coward(cid:29).\\n\\nTemporary voltage reduction to conserve electric power. A shut down is a blackout.\\n\\nbovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow disease.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n150\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nBuddha, Buddhism\\n\\nbudget, budgeted\\n\\n151\\n\\nNoun, but build up as a verb. The adjective is built-up.\\n\\nAn overused adjective. Burgeoning means putting forth shoots or beginning to grow rapidly.\\nOtherwise use growing.\\n\\nLegal definitions vary but usually burglary involves entering a building unlawfully to commit a crime\\n\\nUse Myanmar. In copy, refer to Myanmar, formerly known as Burma.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n151\\n\\nbuffalo\\n\\nPlural is buffaloes.\\n\\nbuildup\\n\\nbull\\'s-eye\\n\\nbungee jump\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nbuoyant\\n\\nbureau\\n\\nplural is bureaux.\\n\\nburgeoning\\n\\nburglary\\n\\nBurma\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nBurmese names\\n\\n152\\n\\nDespite the rule about dropping honorifics, keep the full name at second reference. U means Mr\\nand Daw means Mrs. When U is followed by a single name it should be retained, e.g. U Nu.\\n\\nburnt, or burned in American style\\n\\nNot burka. A one-piece head-to-toe covering for Muslim women, with a headband to hold it in place\\nand a cloth mesh to cover the face but allow vision. Most frequent in Afghanistan and Pakistan.\\nSome European languages use burqa for other kinds of covering, but avoid this usage.\\n\\nbus, buses, busing\\n\\nPassenger bus is tautologous.\\n\\nA unit of measure of dry goods, such as corn, wheat or soybeans equal to 32 dry quarts or 4 pecks\\nor 35.2 litres in metric measurement.\\n\\nAvoid where possible, particularly in leads.It is imprecise, overused and can imply bias if it comes\\nbetween differing versions of events (e.g. He said this, but she said that). In such cases a full stop\\nand a new sentence is better. Do not start a sentence with but.\\n\\nAs a prefix needs no hyphen, except in by-election, by-law, by-product.\\n\\nburqa\\n\\nbushel\\n\\nbut\\n\\nby\\n\\nByelorussia\\n\\nUse Belarus.\\n\\nByzantine\\n\\nCapitalise.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n152\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n153\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n153\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n154\\n\\nC\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Cabinet\\n2 cactus, cactuses\\n3 caddy\\n4 Caesarean section\\n5 cafe\\n6 caffeine\\n7 calibre, but American style is caliber\\n8 Calcutta\\n9 call up, call-up\\n10 camaraderie\\n11 Cambodia\\n12 Cameroon\\n13 Camilla Parker Bowles\\n14 can\\n15 Canada goose\\n16 cancer\\n17 cancel, cancelled, cancellation\\n18 cannon, canon\\n19 canvas, canvass\\n20 capable, capability\\n21 capital, capitol\\n22 capital account\\n23 capital-raising\\n24 Capitalisation. American style is capitalization\\n25 capsize\\n26 carat, caret\\n27 carcass\\n28 careen, career\\n29 cargo and cargoes\\n30 carrier\\n31 carry out\\n32 casino\\n33 castor\\n34 catalogue, catalogued, catalogue, cataloguing, but in American style catalog, cataloged,\\ncataloger, cataloging\\n35 Catch-22\\n36 cave in, cave-in\\n37 caution\\n38 Cawnpore\\n39 CD-ROM\\n40 ceasefire, ceasefires\\n41 celebrant, celebrator\\n42 celibacy, chastity\\n43 cellphone\\n44 cement, concrete\\n45 cemetery\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n154\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n155\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 cello, cellos\\n47 censer, censor, censure\\n48 centre, but center in American style\\n49 Centigrade\\n50 cents\\n51 centimetre\\n52 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention\\n53 centre on\\n54 centuries\\n55 CEO\\n56 Ceylon\\n57 chairman, chairwoman\\n58 Champions League\\n59 changeable channel and channelled.\\n60 charisma\\n61 chat room\\n62 chat show\\n63 cheap, low\\n64 check, cheque, chequebook\\n65 Chennai\\n66 chequered flag, but American style is checkered flag\\n67 cherry pick\\n68 child criminals\\n69 children(cid:25)s\\n70 Chinese names\\n71 chips\\n72 Christ\\n73 Christie(cid:25)s\\n74 chronic\\n75 Church of Christ, Scientist\\n76 Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\\n77 CIA\\n78 circle, centre\\n79 city-state\\n80 civil society\\n81 claimed\\n82 clamour, clamouring, clamorous, but American style is clamor, clamoring, clamorous\\n83 claycourt\\n84 clean up\\n85 clear-cut\\n86 cliches\\n87 click here\\n88 climb up\\n89 close proximity\\n90 coastguard\\n91 coastline\\n92 confectionery\\n93 cognoscente\\n94 Cold War\\n95 collapsible\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n155\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n156\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n96 collectibles\\n97 collective nouns\\n98 collision\\n99 colloquial contractions\\n100 collusion, collaboration\\n101 Colombia, Columbia\\n102 colour, but American style color\\n103 coloured\\n104 combat, but combated is the American usage as a verb.\\n105 comedian\\n106 commander-in-chief, but in American style commander in chief\\n107 commando, commandos\\n108 commas\\n109 commence\\n110 comment\\n111 commercial paper\\n112 commit\\n113 committee\\n114 communique\\n115 communist\\n116 Comoro Islands\\n117 company names\\n\\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\\n117.1 AB\\n117.2 AG\\n117.3 A/S\\n117.4 Cie\\n117.5 Co\\n117.6 Cos\\n117.7 Corp\\n117.8 GmbH\\n117.9 Inc\\n117.10 KK\\n117.11 Ltd\\n117.12 Plc\\n117.13 Pty\\n117.14 SpA\\n117.15 YK\\n118 company titles\\n119 compare\\n120 comparisons\\n121 comparatively\\n122 compass points\\n123 compatible\\n124 compatriot\\n125 complacent, complaisant\\n126 complement, compliment\\n127 comprise\\n128 compound\\n129 compound adjectives\\n130 compunction\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n156\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n157\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n131 concerning\\n132 confectionery\\n133 confidant (male), confidante (female)\\n134 confrontation\\n135 Congo\\n136 Congress, congressional\\n137 connote, denote\\n138 -conscious\\n139 consensus\\n140 consequence\\n141 conservative\\n142 considerable\\n143 consortium, consortiums, not consortia.\\n144 consul-general\\n145 consult, not consult with.\\n146 consumer price index\\n147 contagious, not contageous.\\n148 contango\\n149 contemptible, contemptuous\\n150 continue\\n151 continual, continuous\\n152 contractions\\n153 contrast\\n154 control, controlled, controlling\\n155 controversial\\n156 conurbation\\n157 convener\\n158 conversions\\n159 conversions in sports writing\\n160 conveyor\\n161 convince, persuade\\n162 cooperate, cooperation\\n163 coordinate, coordination\\n164 copter\\n165 co-respondent, correspondent\\n166 corporate America\\n167 council, councillor\\n168 Court of St. James(cid:25)s\\n169 court-martial\\n170 courtesy titles\\n171 cover up, coverup\\n172 CPI\\n173 Cracow\\n174 credible, credulous, creditworthy\\n175 crescendo\\n176 credit rating\\n177 Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease\\n178 cripple, crippled\\n179 crisis, crises\\n180 crisscross\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n157\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n158\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n181 criterion, plural criteria.\\n182 crop year\\n183 cross country\\n184 cross-examine, cross-examined\\n185 cross fire\\n186 cross section\\n187 crown currency\\n188 crowd estimates\\n189 crucial\\n190 cruise missile\\n191 crunch\\n192 cupful, cupfuls\\n193 current account\\n194 currently\\n195 curriculum vitae\\n196 cutback\\n197 cut off, cutoff\\n198 czar\\n199 Czech Republic\\n\\ncactus, cactuses\\n\\nCaesarean section\\n\\nCabinet\\n\\ncaddy\\n\\nNot caddie\\n\\ncafe\\n\\nNo accent.\\n\\ncaffeine\\n\\nCapitalise when referring to a grouping of senior government ministers, heads of department or\\npresidential advisers.\\n\\ncalibre, but American style is caliber\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n158\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n159\\n\\nUse this official name rather than the Khmer-Rouge-era Kampuchea unless directly quoting. Full\\nnames should be used at all references except in the case of royalty.\\n\\nTwo words for the verb, one for the noun and adjective.\\n\\nCalcutta\\n\\nUse Kolkata\\n\\ncall up, call-up\\n\\ncamaraderie\\n\\nCambodia\\n\\nCanada goose\\n\\nNot Canadian.\\n\\ncancer\\n\\nCameroon\\n\\nNot Cameroun or the Cameroons, West Africa.\\n\\nCamilla Parker Bowles\\n\\nNo hyphen.\\n\\ncan\\n\\nMay is about asking permission and can is about the ability to act. If we may borrow your car we\\ncan drive to the beach. May can also be about uncertainty. War may start tomorrow, or may not.\\nWar can start tomorrow because all the weapons are in place.\\n\\nSee medical stories on the need for caution in handling stories about reputed cures for cancer.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n159\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncancel, cancelled, cancellation\\n\\n160\\n\\nEvents that are called off but will be held later are postponed. Report the new date if possible. Only\\nthose events scrapped completely are cancelled. American style uses cancel,canceled, canceling\\nbut cancellation.\\n\\ncannon, canon\\n\\nA cannon is a weapon (same singular and plural), a canon is a law or church dignitary.\\n\\ncanvas, canvass\\n\\nPaint on canvas but canvass for votes.\\n\\ncapable, capability\\n\\nUse with restraint. Write that an aircraft can carry 300 passengers not The aircraft is capable of\\ncarrying 300 passengers. The United States can launch... not The United States has the capability\\nto launch.\\n\\nCapital for all uses, apart from capitol for the building where Congress or state legislatures meet,\\nusually capitalised. Capitalisation\\n\\nAn account in the balance of payments that records movements of capital between domestic and\\nforeign residents. The capital account records changes in the asset and liability position of domestic\\nresidents. It covers flows such as loans and investments. See also current account, balance of\\npayments.\\n\\ncapital, capitol\\n\\ncapital account\\n\\ncapital-raising\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nCapitalisation. American style is capitalization\\n\\nPutting the first letter of a word in capitals makes it limited and specific, e.g. He was a Communist\\nwith conservative instincts.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n160\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n161\\n\\nAbbreviations normally follow the capitalisation of the unabbreviated form. e.g. North American\\nTreaty Organisation, NATO, miles per hour, mph, Western European Union, WEU. See also\\nabbreviations.\\n\\nAcademic, aristocratic, corporate, official, military and religious titles: Capitalise when they\\nimmediately precede a personal name, otherwise use lower case, e.g. Professor John Smith,\\nAdmiral Horatio Nelson but the history professor, the admiral. Capitalise titles such as Ruritanian\\nPresident Tamsin Noble or Global Corp. Chief Executive Jane Dimitriou. See also aristocratic titles\\nand nobility.\\n\\nAcronyms are words formed from the initial letters or syllables of other words, e.g. radar (cid:19) radio\\ndetection and ranging. When an acronym is made up of initial letters that are themselves\\ncapitalised, then capitalise each letter, e.g. NATO for the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. But if\\nthe acronym is formed from initial syllables rather than letters, then capitalise only the first letter. In\\ngeneral avoid acronyms as much as possible.\\n\\nArmed forces: capitalise such specific names as U.S. Marine Corps, Royal Air Force, the\\nCanadian Forces and the (German) Bundeswehr and Luftwaffe. Use lower case when referring\\ngenerically to the various armed services in cases where nations do not use the word as a proper\\nnoun e.g. the French army, the Indonesian navy, the Brazilian air force.\\n\\nAstronomical: Capitalise the names of heavenly bodies such as Betelgeuse, the Great Bear and\\nJupiter, but not the sun, moon, and earth (except in a phrase such as Mother Earth or Planet Earth\\nor when listing Earth among the planets).\\n\\nDrugs: Capitalise Ecstasy and the names of other synthetic drugs.\\n\\nGeographical and geological names: Capitalise these, apart from particles, articles, and compass\\nreferences not forming part of the proper name, e.g. the River Plate but the river; North Korea but\\nnorth London; the Nile Delta but the delta of the Nile, the Upper Pleistocene, the Lower East Side of\\nNew York but the lower east bank of the river. However, the Bermuda Triangle, the Triangle.\\n\\nGeopolitical: capitalise nouns and adjectives with a geographic origin but used politically, such as\\nWestern influence, the North-South divide, the West, Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia.\\n\\nGovernment ministers: Capitalise the title when it immediately precedes the person(cid:25)s name.\\nWhen the title follows the name or is used alone, use lower case, e.g.: French Foreign Minister Jean\\nBlanc; Jean Blanc, the French foreign minister, the foreign minister, President George Bush but The\\npresident said: (cid:28)I would like to welcome the Manchukistan prime minister, Stefan Hartzjand.(cid:29)\\n\\nGovernment bodies: treat government bodies as proper names and capitalise them when they are\\nan integral part of a specific name but not when unspecific as in plurals or standing alone, e.g. the\\nIsraeli Foreign Ministry or The Foreign Ministry said Israel would... But The ministry added; the\\nAustralian Parliament but the Australian and New Zealand parliaments.\\n\\nHyphenated titles: When a hyphenated title is capitalised, capitalise both parts, e.g.\\nLieutenant-General John Smith, Vice-Admiral Tom Brown, Secretary-General Juan Blanco.\\n\\nLegislative bodies: Capitalise the official names of legislatives bodies such as Parliament, Senate,\\nthe Diet at all references. The one exception is when they are used in the plural: The Norwegian\\nand Danish parliaments.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n161\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n162\\n\\nNationality and race: Capitalise words denominating nationality race or language -- Arab, African,\\nArgentine, Caucasian, Chinese, Finnish.\\n\\nNicknames: Treat them as proper names when they refer to a specific person or thing, e.g. the Iron\\nLady; Silvio Berlusconi, nicknamed (cid:28)Cavaliere (cid:28) (Knight); the Australian rugby team, the Wallabies.\\n\\nOccupations: Do not capitalise words that informally describe a person(cid:25)s occupation e.g. farmer\\nJack Thomas, accountant William Smith.\\n\\nPolitics: Capitalise the names of political parties and of movements with a specific doctrine, e.g. a\\nCommunist official, a Democratic senator. Use lower case for non-specific references, e.g. The\\ncommunist part of the former Soviet Bloc, but the Communist Party of what was then East\\nGermany; the settlement was run on communist principles; he proposed a democratic vote.\\n\\nProper names: Common nouns that normally have no initial capital are capitalised when they are\\nan integral part of the full name of a person, organisation or thing, e.g. Queen Elizabeth, the Sultan\\nof Brunei, President Hosni Mubarak, General John Smith, Senator Jack Brown, the River Thames,\\nChristian Democratic Party, the Church Assembly. These nouns are normally lower case if they\\nstand alone or in the plural e.g. the queen, the Malaysian sultan, down the river, Christian\\nDemocratic parties. But former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, former Managing Director John\\nBrown. Do not risk ambiguity, e.g. The Speaker told the House of Commons. Retain the capital also\\nwhen the person remains specific because there is only one or because he or she is preeminent,\\ne.g. the Dalai Lama, the Pontiff, the Pope, the Virgin Mary.\\n\\nProper nouns: Capitalise words that uniquely identify a particular person or thing, e.g. John Smith,\\nGeneral Motors, Mount Everest, the Sixteenth Century as a noun but 16th-century art, the 1st\\nInfantry Division, the 7th Fleet. Exceptions here are for articles and particles used as auxiliaries in\\nnames like Robert the Bruce, Charles de Gaulle. Keep the capital on words that still derive their\\nmeaning from a proper noun, e.g. Americanise, Christian, Marxist, Shakespearian, Stalinist. Do not\\nkeep it when the connection with the proper noun is remote, e.g. arabic numerals, boycott,\\nchauvinistic, french polish, herculean, pasteurise.\\n\\nPublications: No quotation marks around the title. Whatever the masthead says, do not capitalise\\narticles and particles in the names of English-language newspapers and magazines, e.g. the New\\nYork Times, the News of the World. The names of some non-English language newspapers begin\\nwith a word meaning the. In such cases write the newspaper O Globo/Le Monde/Die Welt not the O\\nGlobo/Le Monde/Die Welt newspaper\\n\\nBooks, films, plays, poems, operas, songs and works of art: capitalise every word in the title\\napart from conjunctions, articles, particles and short prepositions, e.g. (cid:28)The Rise and Fall of the\\nThird Reich(cid:29), (cid:28)The Merchant of Venice(cid:29), (cid:28)Gone with the Wind(cid:29). The same is true of radio and\\ntelevision programmes other than news and current affairs, e.g. (cid:28)American Idol(cid:29) but Meet the\\nPress.\\n\\nQuotes: A statement that follows a colon quote begins with a capital, e.g. Guzhenko said: (cid:28)The\\nconference has ignored the principle of equality.(cid:29)\\n\\nReligion: Names of divinities are capitalised but unspecific plurals are lower case, e.g. Allah, the\\nAlmighty, Christ, God, Jehovah, the Deity, the Holy Trinity, but the gods, the lords of the universe.\\nCapitalise religious titles when they immediately precede a personal name, otherwise use lower\\ncase, e.g. Bishop Thaddeus Smith, Dean Robert Jones, but the bishop, the dean. Use only the\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n162\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n163\\n\\nsimplest and best-known titles at first reference, e.g. the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Dr John Smith rather\\nthan the Right Rev. John Smith. Capitalise names of denominations and religious movements, e.g.\\nBaptist, Buddhist, Christian, Church of England, Islamic, Jew, Jewish, Muslim, Orthodox. But\\nnon-denominational references are lower case, e.g. adult baptism, orthodox beliefs, built a temple.\\nThe pope is head of the Roman Catholic Church or of the Church (that is, the whole body of Roman\\nCatholics) but he would celebrate mass in a Roman Catholic church (that is, a building). A baptist is\\nsomeone who baptises. A Baptist is a member of the Protestant denomination. With more than 20\\nseparate Baptist church groups in the United States, it is incorrect to refer to the Baptist Church as a\\nsingular entity. The correct reference would be to Baptist Churches or to the specific Baptist group\\ninvolved, e.g. the Southern Baptist Convention. See religious terms\\n\\nSentences: The first word of a sentence is always capitalised, unless it is contained within brackets\\nas part of another sentence (this is an example). Sports: Treat specific events as proper names,\\ngeneral references as common nouns, e.g. the Olympic Games, the Belgian Grand Prix, but an\\nathletics meeting, a motor racing championship.\\n\\nSoftware: Capitalise, without quotation marks, e.g. Windows, Internet Explorer. Use quotation\\nmarks for computer games, e.g. (cid:28)Bust a Move: Dance Summit(cid:29).\\n\\nSports events: Use lower case for sport names, junior, men(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s, championship,\\ntournament, meeting, match, test, race, game etc. Use upper case for title of the event e.g. French\\nOpen tennis championships, Dutch Open golf tournament.\\n\\nTransport: Names of aircraft, cars, railway trains and ships, are capitalised, e.g. the Cutty Sark,\\nUSS Forrestal, a Nimrod, a Ford Mondea, the Orient Express.\\n\\ncapsize\\n\\ncarat, caret\\n\\ncarcass\\n\\ncareen, career\\n\\ncargo and cargoes\\n\\nCarat is a measurement of weight in precious stones and of purity in gold. Caret is a proofreader(cid:25)s\\nmark to show an insertion of something missing. In American style, karat is the measurement of\\ngold purity.\\n\\nYou careen a ship by turning it on its side to clean the hull. It can be used to mean keeling over. To\\ncareer is to move rapidly.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n163\\n\\n\\x0ccarrier\\n\\ncarry out\\n\\ncasino\\n\\ncasinos.\\n\\ncastor\\n\\nCatch-22\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n164\\n\\nUse only in reference to aircraft carriers, i.e. ships from which fixed-wing aircraft can take off.\\nHelicopter carriers should be referred to by the full name.\\n\\nA weak synonym for do. Use a stronger verb to describe the action.\\n\\nFor all uses (cid:19) the wheel on a furniture leg, a beaver, bean or oil. in American style, caster is a wheel\\non a furniture leg but castor is a beaver or a bean or oil.\\n\\ncatalogue, catalogued, catalogue, cataloguing, but in American style\\ncatalog, cataloged, cataloger, cataloging\\n\\nCapitalised and hyphenated. An absurd no-win situation. From the title of the Joseph Heller novel.\\nNow a cliche; use with restraint.\\n\\ncave in, cave-in\\n\\nTwo words for verb. One word for noun.\\n\\ncaution\\n\\nCawnpore\\n\\nUse Kanpur, India.\\n\\nAs a verb prefer warn. Do not write, for instance, He cautioned that war was imminent.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n164\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nCD-ROM\\n\\nceasefire, ceasefires\\n\\nOne word as a noun. The verb is to cease fire.\\n\\ncelebrant, celebrator\\n\\n165\\n\\nA celebrant takes part in a religious ceremony and a celebrator takes part in a revel.\\n\\nCelibacy is unmarried, particularly under the force of a vow. Chastity is sexual purity or virginity. You\\ncan be chaste but not celibate, and celibate but not chaste.\\n\\ncelibacy, chastity\\n\\ncellphone\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\ncement, concrete\\n\\ncemetery\\n\\ncello, cellos\\n\\nCement is just one constituent of concrete. Use concrete block, not cement block.\\n\\ncenser, censor, censure\\n\\nA censer is used to burn incense. A censor removes offensive content . Censure is disapproval.\\n\\ncentre, but center in American style\\n\\nWatch for use in proper names.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n165\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n166\\n\\nCentigrade\\n\\nUse Celsius.\\n\\ncents\\n\\ncentimetre\\n\\nSpell out U.S. cents in text.\\n\\nAbbreviation cm (no full stop, same singular and plural), acceptable at all references. To convert to\\ninches roughly multiply by two and divide by five, precisely multiply by 0.394.\\n\\nCenters for Disease Control and Prevention\\n\\nU.S. Public Health Service national agencies based in Atlanta. Note the plural. Not Centres.\\n\\nYou centre on something, not around it. You circle around something.\\n\\nSpell out numbers one to nine, write 10 and above in figures -- ninth century, 20th century (no\\ncapital letter)\\n\\ncentre on\\n\\ncenturies\\n\\nCEO\\n\\nCeylon\\n\\nUse Sri Lanka.\\n\\nUse chief executive officer on first reference.\\n\\nchairman, chairwoman\\n\\nnot chair.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n166\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nChampions League\\n\\nCapitalised and no apostrophe.\\n\\nchangeable channel and channelled.\\n\\n167\\n\\nA tired and worn out word. Avoid. Very few people have a divinely conferred gift or influence over\\nlarge numbers of people.\\n\\ncharisma\\n\\nchat room\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nchat show\\n\\nChennai\\n\\nNot Madras.\\n\\nTwo words, no hyphen.\\n\\ncheap, low\\n\\nPrices are low not cheap.\\n\\ncheck, cheque, chequebook\\n\\nA restaurant bill is a check, a money order a cheque. In American style, check is used for both.\\n\\nchequered flag, but American style is checkered flag\\n\\ncherry pick\\n\\nTo select carefully. A clich\'c3\'a9.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n167\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nchild criminals\\n\\n168\\n\\nIn many countries it is illegal to identify a defendant under the age of 18. Use sensitivity and be\\nguided by local legal rules.\\n\\nThe possessive is children(cid:25)s, similar to men(cid:25)s and women(cid:25)s.\\n\\nchildren(cid:25)s\\n\\nChinese names\\n\\nUse the Pinyin transliteration of Chinese names from China. Thus Guangdong (not Canton), Beijing\\n(not Peking), Mao Zedong (not Mao Tsetung), Zhou Enlai (not Chou Enlai) However, where there\\nare traditional alternatives that are not Chinese e.g., Kashgar, Khotan, Tibet (and its cities of Lhasa\\nand Shigatse), Urumqi, use these. Mainland Chinese do not hyphenate the given name, e.g. Deng\\nXiaoping. Taiwan Chinese do, with the second part in lower case, e.g. Chiang Kai-shek. In both\\ncases use only the surname at second reference, e.g. Deng, Chiang.\\n\\nUse french fries (cid:19) unambiguous and universally understood (except for fish and chips).\\n\\nWrite Jesus Christ or Jesus on first reference and usually Jesus thereafter. Use Christ on second\\nreference only in the context of Christian theology, i.e. in phrases such as "body and blood of\\nChrist" that are clearly taken from Christian beliefs. See Jesus Christ\\n\\nchips\\n\\nChrist\\n\\nChristie(cid:25)s\\n\\nWith an apostrophe.\\n\\nchronic\\n\\nAcute is coming to a crisis, chronic is lasting a long time or deep-seated. Be specific when writing\\nabout disease or problems.\\n\\nChurch of Christ, Scientist\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n168\\n\\n\\x0cCIA\\n\\ncircle, centre\\n\\ncity-state\\n\\nhyphenated\\n\\ncivil society\\n\\nclaimed\\n\\nclaycourt\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n169\\n\\nChurch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\\n\\nUse Mormon church unless the story is specifically about the Church(cid:25)s affairs.\\n\\nThe United States Central Intelligence Agency. The initials may be used alone as an adjective in a\\nlead paragraph if it is clear from the context what is meant.\\n\\nYou circle around something but centre on something.\\n\\nA vague term, not interchangeable with non-governmental organisations (NGOs ) The OECD\\ndefines it thus: "The multitude of associations around which society voluntarily organizes itself and\\nwhich represent a wide range of interests and ties. These can include community-based\\norganisations, indigenous peoples\\' organisations and non-government organisations."\\n\\nUse of this word suggests the writer does not believe the statement in question. Prefer plain said. It\\nis acceptable to say that a guerrilla organisation claimed responsibility for carrying out an attack. Do\\nnot say that it claimed credit.\\n\\nclamour, clamouring, clamorous, but American style is clamor,\\nclamoring, clamorous\\n\\none word as an adjective, e.g. claycourt tournament, but two words as an adjective and noun, e.g.\\nclay courts at the stadium.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n169\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n170\\n\\nThe verb is clean up, the noun and adjective cleanup.\\n\\nclean up\\n\\nclear-cut\\n\\nAdjective.\\n\\ncliches\\n\\nAvoid metaphors, similes, or other figures of speech that appear frequently in print. If it sounds too\\nfamiliar then discard it.\\n\\nIn diplomacy and politics: face-to-face talks, on key issues, top-level meeting, headed into talks\\non, spearheaded a major initiative, rubber-stamp parliament, lashed out, landmark agreement.\\n\\nIn disasters: mercy mission, airlifted/rushed to hospital, giant C-130 transports, massive aid, an air\\nand sea search was under way, disaster probe, sifted through the wreckage.\\n\\nOf violence: lone gunman, strife-torn province, embattled city, baton-wielding police,\\nstone-throwing demonstrators, steel-helmeted troops braced themselves for, police swoop,\\npre-dawn raid, staged an attack on, (tautologically) anti-government rebels, (tautologically) armed\\nsoldiers. Avoid armed police unless writing about a country where the police are normally unarmed.\\nThen explain.\\n\\nOf industrial trouble: top union leaders, bosses, in a bid to settle, hammer out an agreement.\\n\\nDo not use on websites. Tell readers where they are going.\\n\\nclick here\\n\\nclimb up\\n\\nIn almost all cases just climb will do.\\n\\nclose proximity\\n\\nReplace with close to or near.\\n\\ncoastguard\\n\\nOne word except when referring to the U.S. Coast Guard.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n170\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n171\\n\\nCollective noun meaning sweetmeats, candy. Confectionary is one sweetmeat.\\n\\nsingular. Plural is cognoscenti. Prefer connoisseur and connoisseurs. They possess not just\\nknowledge, but critical knowledge of a subject.\\n\\ncoastline\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nconfectionery\\n\\ncognoscente\\n\\nCold War\\n\\nCapitalise.\\n\\ncollapsible\\n\\ncollectibles\\n\\ncollective nouns\\n\\ncollision\\n\\nMost collective nouns and names of countries, governments, organisations and companies are\\nfollowed by singular verbs and singular neuter pronouns, e.g. The government, which is studying\\nthe problem said it... not The government, who are studying the problem, said they.. Exceptions are\\nthe police (police are), the couple (the couple are) and Reuters sports stories, where teams take\\nplural verbs and pronouns.\\n\\nBeware of the legal danger of imputing blame in a collision but avoid clumsy phraseology such as\\nThe Danish freighter was in collision with the German tanker. Better to write The Danish freighter\\nand the German tanker collided. Only two moving objects can collide. It is wrong therefore to write\\nThe ferry collided with the jetty. Plain hit is enough.\\n\\ncolloquial contractions\\n\\nUse contractions such as isn(cid:25)t, aren(cid:25)t, can(cid:25)t only in quotes or an informal context. Do not write\\nPresident Brown can(cid:25)t make up his mind whether to raise taxes or cut government spending. But\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n171\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n172\\n\\nyou could write For Georgia peanut farmer Fred Jenkins it isn(cid:25)t a question of whether, but when, he\\nwill go bankrupt. Use ain(cid:25)t only when quoting someone.\\n\\ncollusion, collaboration\\n\\nCollusion is to act together to deceive. Do not use it when you mean collaboration or cooperation.\\n\\nColombia, Columbia\\n\\nColombia is the country, but Columbia Records.\\n\\ncolour, but American style color\\n\\nThere is no conflict between the need for impartiality and concise writing and the need in many\\nstories for colour, description and atmosphere. Correspondents filing witness reports should think\\nvisual and write copy that reflects that they have been on the scene of an event rather than picked\\nup the information at second hand. If writing a story from the office they should not hesitate to take\\ndescriptive from television ensuring that they distinguish clearly between what television shows\\n(which need not be sourced if the facts are indisputable) and what a television commentator says.\\n\\nThe first person should not normally intrude into Reuters copy. If you have to source a contentious\\nstatement based on direct observation write & This correspondent saw& Vivid quotes and lively\\nbackground details breathe life into a dry story and should be woven in, not inserted in slabs.\\nColourful stories do not need gaudy adjectives or overdramatic verbs. They require a fresh vision,\\nselection of the right noun to convey a shade of meaning, and vigorous, active verbs.\\n\\ncoloured\\n\\nUse for people only in the context of South Africa for a person of mixed race. The story should make\\nthis clear. Lower case. See section on race\\n\\ncombat, but combated is the American usage as a verb.\\n\\ncomedian\\n\\nUse for a man or a woman. Not comedienne.\\n\\ncommander-in-chief, but in American style commander in chief\\n\\nThere are no hyphens in U.S. titles.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n172\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncommando, commandos\\n\\ncommas\\n\\n173\\n\\nAny sentence studded with commas could probably benefit from a rewrite. Use commas as a guide\\nto sense, to break a sentence into logically discrete parts, but do not use them to the extent that\\nthey break the flow of a sentence.\\n\\nUse commas to mark off words and phrases that are in apposition to, or define other words or\\nphrases in the sentence e.g. Herve de Charette, French foreign minister, said ... Rudolf Nureyev,\\nmost prominent of the defectors from the Bolshoi, has danced &\\n\\nUse commas to mark off a clause that is not essential to the meaning of a sentence, e.g. The\\nairliner, which was seven years old, crashed ... But a clause that cannot be removed from the\\nsentence without affecting its meaning is not marked off by commas, e.g. The airliner that crashed\\non Thursday was seven years old but the plane lost the previous day was brand new.\\n\\nUse commas to separate items in a list, e.g. cheese, fruit, wine and coffee or Smith despised ballet,\\nhated the theatre and was bored by opera. Note that there is normally no comma before the final\\nand. However, a comma should be used in this position if to leave it out would risk ambiguity, e.g.\\nHe admired Irving Berlin, Rodgers and Hart, and Leonard Bernstein.\\n\\nAs in the sentence above, a comma follows an initial however. But as long as there is no risk of\\nambiguity there is no need for the comma after opening phrases like On Wednesday the committee\\ndecided ... In the first four months of 2002 Britain exported ...\\n\\ncommence\\n\\nUse begin or start.\\n\\ncomment\\n\\ncommercial paper\\n\\nA short-term debt issued by companies for working capital, typically with 90 days duration\\n\\nJournalists should not comment but interpret events by reporting the action of others.\\n\\ncommit\\n\\nPast tense committed, noun commitment.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n173\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n174\\n\\ncommittee\\n\\ncommunique\\n\\ncommunist\\n\\nA communique is an official announcement. It is tautological to write an official communique. Plain\\nstatement is usually better.\\n\\nLower case except when referring to a specific party e.g. Communist Party of Great Britain.\\n\\nComoro Islands\\n\\nOr simply the Comoros for the Indian Ocean group.\\n\\ncompany names\\n\\nWhen writing about a company, provide the full legal company name (including Inc, Ltd, Plc etc) at\\nfirst reference. Where this would be clumsy, e.g. if several companies are named together in a lead\\nparagraph, the full legal name can be given at second reference. Give the name in its original\\nlanguage if that language uses Latin characters unless the company has a preference for its English\\nname.\\n\\nMany companies in the same group have similar names. It is only by giving the full names that a\\nspecialist can distinguish between them. When giving the company(cid:25)s full name observe the\\nspelling, capitalisation and punctuation used by the company, apostrophes, hyphens and slashes\\n(e.g. A/S), but use standard abbreviations to indicate what type of company. Don\\'t use a point (full\\nstop) after the abbreviation eg. Inc not Inc. and Ltd not Ltd. Use the name that the company itself\\nuses. The exception is companies that render their names all in capitals, in which case we make it\\nupper/lower (CIGNA Corp becomes Cigna Corp).\\n\\nEliminate exclamation points from company names, such as Yahoo! and Yum!.\\n\\nKeep lower case in company names except at the start of a sentence, where eBay becomes Ebay.\\n\\nDo not use the colloquial practice of pluralising company names. It is Ford not Fords; Rothschild not\\nRothschilds. Similarly do not pluralise the pronouns. Companies are singular, not plural. It is\\nSiemens said its plant... not ...their plant...\\n\\nThe following abbreviations show the kind of registered company. When such abbreviations come\\nat the end of a company name they are not preceded by a comma.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n174\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n175\\n\\nAktiebolaget\\n\\nAktiengesellschaft\\n\\nAktieselskabet\\n\\nAB\\n\\nAG\\n\\nA/S\\n\\nCie\\n\\nCo\\n\\nCompagnie\\n\\nCompany\\n\\nCompanies\\n\\nCorporation\\n\\nCos\\n\\nCorp\\n\\nGmbH\\n\\nInc\\n\\nKK\\n\\nIncorporated\\n\\nGesellschaft mit beschaenkter Haftung\\n\\nKabushiki Kaisha (joint stock company)\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n175\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n176\\n\\nPublic limited company\\n\\nLimited\\n\\nLtd\\n\\nPlc\\n\\nPty\\n\\nSpA\\n\\nYK\\n\\nProprietary\\n\\nSocieta per Azioni\\n\\nYugen Kaisha (Ltd.)\\n\\ncompany titles\\n\\ncompare\\n\\ncomparisons\\n\\nCapitalise corporate titles, e.g. Company Chairman John Smith, not Company chairman John\\nSmith.\\n\\nWhen in doubt use compare with, which is used for a comparison to highlight either differences or\\nsimilarities. Compare to is used when simply stating that two things are similar, e.g. His playing\\ncompares to that of Mozart. See contrast.\\n\\nCompare like with like. It is wrong to write The food shortage was not as bad as near-famine years\\nor the weapon(cid:25)s range was twice as great as the Kalashnikov. You cannot compare a shortage\\nwith years or a distance with a weapon. Write The food shortage was not so bad as that in the\\nnear-famine years or The weapon(cid:25)s range was twice as great as the Kalashnikov(cid:25)s. Special care\\nis needed with statistical comparisons. One month may not be comparable with another because of\\nits length or the number of national holidays it contains. December figures for one country may not\\nbe comparable with another(cid:25)s because the countries are in different hemispheres.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n176\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncomparatively\\n\\n177\\n\\nOnly use the word if you are actually comparing something with another thing. Even in those cases\\nyou can leave it out and directly say something is bigger than, or smaller than. Do not use\\ncomparatively small to\\n\\ncompass points\\n\\nCapitalise compass points only when they form part of a proper name (cid:19) North Korea, but north\\nLondon; the Lower East Side of New York, but the lower east bank of the river. Omit hyphens in the\\nfour basic compounds northwest, northeast, southwest, southeast. Use a hyphen in the minor\\ncompounds such as north-northeast. You do not write northern Connecticut or southern Kent when\\nyou mean to say that Connecticut is a northern state or Kent a southern county. So do not say\\nnorthern Chiang Mai or eastern Kivu province. It(cid:25)s the northern town of Chiang Mai or the eastern\\nprovince of Kivu.\\n\\ncompatible\\n\\ncompatriot\\n\\nBut expatriate, not expatriot.\\n\\ncomplacent, complaisant\\n\\ncomplement, compliment\\n\\nComplacent is smug and self-satisfied. Complaisant is willing and affable.\\n\\nTo complement is to complete or to provide a matching component to something, e.g. The British\\nsubmarines complemented the U.S. surface ships. To compliment is to praise.\\n\\ncomprise\\n\\nUse only when listing all the component parts of a whole: Benelux comprises Belgium, the\\nNetherlands and Luxembourg. Do not write comprised of. If listing only some components use\\ninclude: The European Union includes Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.\\n\\ncompound\\n\\nIf you mean to make worse, say so.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n177\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncompound adjectives\\n\\n178\\n\\nRequire hyphens, e.g. the first-leg score. If an adverb and an adjective are used together in an\\nadjectival phrase then there is no hyphen e.g. a closely followed competition.\\n\\nUse pity or remorse in preference. Do not confuse with compulsion.\\n\\ncompunction\\n\\nconcerning\\n\\nPrefer about.\\n\\nconfectionery\\n\\nconfrontation\\n\\nCongo\\n\\nconfidant (male), confidante (female)\\n\\nModish but vague word. Use more specific terms if possible, e.g. war, clash, dispute.\\n\\nDistinguish between the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), formerly Zaire, and the neighbouring\\nCongo Republic. In most stories, only one Congo is involved so subsequent references can be\\nmade simply to Congo or Congolese. In stories about the Democratic Republic of Congo, the\\nacronym DRC may be used in brackets at first mention, and stand alone at later references.\\n\\nCongress, congressional\\n\\nCapitalise Congress when it is part of the name of an official body. Keep congressional lower case\\nunless it is part of the formal title of an official body.\\n\\nconnote, denote\\n\\nConnote is to imply attributes. Marriage connotes short-term bliss. Denote is to indicate or mark by\\na sign. A wedding ring denoted his married status. Both words are probably best avoided.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n178\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n-conscious\\n\\nHyphenated as in self-conscious, but unconsciousness\\n\\n179\\n\\nGeneral consensus is tautological, as is consensus of opinion because consensus means either\\nunanimity or a general trend of opinion.\\n\\nconsensus\\n\\nconsequence\\n\\nconservative\\n\\nconsiderable\\n\\nUse because rather than as a consequence of.\\n\\nLower case unless referring to a specific political organisation.\\n\\nAvoid. Define by size; show the reader why something in considerable.\\n\\nconsortium, consortiums, not consortia.\\n\\nconsul-general\\n\\nNote hyphen. Likewise consulate-general.\\n\\nconsult, not consult with.\\n\\nconsumer price index\\n\\ncontagious, not contageous.\\n\\nThe CPI is a measure of retail price inflation. Also known as a retail price index. Usually given as\\npercentage rise or fall in the index.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n179\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncontango\\n\\n180\\n\\nA state of affairs where futures prices are progressively higher the further the maturity date is from\\nspot. Contango is the normal relationship between spot and futures prices and is the opposite of\\nbackwardation. See Also backwardation.\\n\\ncontemptible, contemptuous\\n\\nContemptible is despicable and contemptuous is haughty or scornful. The contemptuous scorn the\\ncontemptible.\\n\\ncontinue\\n\\nAvoid in lead paragraphs. There is always more lively phrasing available.\\n\\ncontinual, continuous\\n\\nContinual means frequent and repeated, continuous means uninterrupted.\\n\\nAvoid contractions such as isn(cid:25)t, won(cid:25)t, wasn(cid:25)t, can(cid:25)t except in direct quotations. Spell out the\\nphrase in full, is not, will not etc.\\n\\nUse contrast to for comparisons of dissimilar things, or to underline the difference. His scowl\\ncontrasted to her smile. Use contrast with when you want to compare the differences of two similar\\nthings. He contrasted the performance of the England cricket team with that of Australia. See\\ncompare.\\n\\ncontrol, controlled, controlling\\n\\nAvoid. Spell out what is controversial and let the reader decide.\\n\\ncontractions\\n\\ncontrast\\n\\ncontroversial\\n\\nconurbation\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n180\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n181\\n\\nNot a synonym for an urban area. It means an aggregation of towns, like the New York-Boston or\\nTokyo-Osaka corridors.\\n\\nconvener\\n\\nconversions\\n\\nConvert currencies into U.S. dollars and turn imperial weights and measures into metric equivalents\\nand vice versa. Give the local unit in the country of origin first and then the conversion in brackets.\\nNever give the dollar equivalent without first giving the local currency figure. If a figure for speed,\\ndistance, weight, etc., is approximate, the conversion should also be approximate. Write a 2,000-lb\\n(900-kg) bomb not a 2,000-lb (907-kg) bomb. Do not give a conversion to more decimal places than\\nare given in the original figure. When abbreviating metric units use the singular form without a full\\nstop, e.g. kg or km not kgs or kms. If no specific figure is being given, do not go through the motions\\nof converting. Write, for instance, The bomb exploded only yards from the palace entrance not The\\nbomb exploded only yards (metres) from the palace entrance. Conversions are a fertile source of\\nerror. Double-check them all. If you make a conversion precisely using a calculator, make a rough\\nbackward check to make sure that you have not added or lost a zero.\\n\\nconversions in sports writing\\n\\nUse only metric measurements, except for golf where yards and feet are used, and sailing where\\nnautical miles are used. In sports writing there is no need to add conversions in brackets, apart from\\ncurrencies.\\n\\nconveyor\\n\\nUse for conveyor belt and for a person who conveys.\\n\\nconvince, persuade\\n\\nYou convince people of something and persuade them to do something. You do not convince\\nsomeone to do something.\\n\\ncooperate, cooperation\\n\\nAn exception to the rule that prefixes are usually hyphenated when the same vowel ends the prefix\\nand starts the main word. But co-op (stores) to distinguish from chicken coop.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n181\\n\\n\\x0c182\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncoordinate, coordination\\n\\nAn exception to the prefix hyphenation rules.\\n\\ncopter\\n\\nUse helicopter.\\n\\nco-respondent, correspondent\\n\\nA co-respondent appears in a divorce case. A correspondent writes letters.\\n\\nNot councilor, councilman, councilwoman, but American style is counsel, counseling, counselor.\\n\\nThe place to which ambassadors are posted in Great Britain. It is St. not St and James(cid:25)s not James\\nPalace.\\n\\ncorporate America\\n\\nNot Corporate America.\\n\\ncouncil, councillor\\n\\nCourt of St. James(cid:25)s\\n\\ncourt-martial\\n\\ncourts-martial, to court-martial\\n\\ncourtesy titles\\n\\nDo not use courtesy titles such as Mr, Mrs, Ms or Miss or their foreign equivalents. An exception\\nwould be in a story about two people with the same family name when we might refer for instance to\\nMr Smith and Mrs Smith to avoid confusion. Use at first reference only titles of nobility and military,\\nmedical and religious titles, e.g. Lord Ferrars, Dr Christiaan Barnard, the Rev. Jesse Jackson.\\nExcept for obvious cases e.g. a king or queen, avoid foreign honorifics; it is difficult to be consistent\\nthrough various cultures. In general it is better to describe people by their job title or position.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n182\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncover up, coverup\\n\\nTwo words for verb, one word for noun.\\n\\nCPI\\n\\n183\\n\\nConsumer price index. The CPI is a measure of retail price inflation. Also known as a retail price\\nindex. Usually given as percentage rise or fall in the index. In the UK, the main domestic measure of\\ninflation for macroeconomic purposes and equal to HICP.\\n\\nCracow\\n\\nUse Krakow, Poland.\\n\\ncrescendo\\n\\ncredit rating\\n\\ncredible, credulous, creditworthy\\n\\nIf you are credible you can be believed. If you are credulous you will believe anything. If you are\\ncreditworthy you are likely to get a loan.\\n\\nA gradual increase in loudness. It is wrong to write that something reached a crescendo, which is a\\nprobable confusion with reached a climax.\\n\\nCredit ratings measure a borrower\\'s creditworthiness and provide an international framework for\\ncomparing the credit quality of issuers and rated debt securities. Rating provided by agencies\\nincluding Moody(cid:25)s and Standard and Poor(cid:25)s and Fitch. See also credit rating, www.moodys.com ,\\nwww2.standardandpoors.com, www.fitchratings.com, Moody\\'s, Standard & Poor\\'s\\n\\nCan be abbreviated to CJD, but needs explanation. There is also variant CJD. Abbreviate to vCJD.\\n\\nCreutzfeldt-Jakob disease\\n\\ncripple, crippled\\n\\nAvoid using to describe the handicapped.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n183\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncrisis, crises\\n\\n184\\n\\nTry to avoid. It means a turning point or the stage in events at which the trend of all future events is\\ndetermined. Very overused. A crisis cannot grow or deepen. It just is.\\n\\nTake care with crop-year dates because the old crop can be harvested and the new crop planted in\\nthe same year. To refer to the 2002 crop can be ambiguous. Commodity producers sometimes have\\nmarketing years for produce which differ from the crop year. In such cases spell out which year is\\nreferred to and when each starts and ends.\\n\\ncrisscross\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\ncrop year\\n\\ncriterion, plural criteria.\\n\\ncross country\\n\\nTwo words, no hyphen, for the athletics event.\\n\\ncross-examine, cross-examined\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\ncross fire\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\ncross section\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\ncrown currency\\n\\nUse this for the Nordic currencies, not kroner, kronor or kronur.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n184\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncrowd estimates\\n\\n185\\n\\nIf the number of people involved in an event such as a demonstration or strike is at all controversial,\\ngive the source for the number quoted.\\n\\nA clich\'c3\'a9 best avoided. Try instead to show the reader why something is crucial and to whom.\\n\\ncrucial\\n\\ncruise missile\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\ncrunch\\n\\nA tired clich\'c3\'a9. Avoid.\\n\\ncupful, cupfuls\\n\\ncurrent account\\n\\ncurrently\\n\\ncurriculum vitae\\n\\nSingular. Plural is curricula vitae\\n\\ncutback\\n\\nUse cut for both verb and noun.\\n\\nA country\\'s current account balance is the sum of the visible trade balance (exports and imports that\\ncan be seen) and the invisible balance (credits and debits for services of one kind or another, such\\nas tourism, banking and insurance). It excludes flows produced by long-term borrowings or\\ninvestment, which are counted in the capital account. See also balance of payments.\\n\\nUnless comparing the present with the past, the word is usually redundant, as in The United States\\ncurrently has 20,000 troops in Ruritania. Cut it out.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n185\\n\\n\\x0c186\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncut off, cutoff\\n\\nThe verb is cut off, the noun is cutoff.\\n\\nczar\\n\\nUse tsar.\\n\\nCzech Republic\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n186\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n187\\n\\nD\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 dachshund\\n2 Daimler-Benz\\n3 dais, lectern, podium, pulpit, rostrum\\n4 Dalai Lama\\n5 dashes\\n6 data\\n7 database\\n8 dates\\n9 daughter-in-law, daughters-in-law\\n10 daylight-saving time\\n11 days of the week\\n12 day to day\\n13 D-Day\\n14 DEA\\n15 deaf\\n16 deathbed\\n17 death toll\\n18 decades\\n19 decided, decisive\\n20 decimals\\n21 decimate\\n22 defeat\\n23 defence, but American style is defense\\n24 defendant\\n25 definite, definitive\\n26 definitely\\n27 defunct\\n28 defuse, diffuse\\n29 degree-day\\n30 deletion\\n31 delight\\n32 demagogue\\n33 demise\\n34 demolished, destroyed\\n35 demonstrator\\n36 denials\\n37 denote, connote\\n38 dependant, dependent\\n39 deprecate\\n40 depreciation\\n41 depression\\n42 depths\\n43 de rigueur\\n44 desiccate\\n45 despatch\\n46 desperate\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n187\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n188\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 despite the fact that\\n48 detente\\n49 designate\\n50 devaluation\\n51 device, devise\\n52 dexterous\\n53 diagnosis, prognosis\\n54 diarrhoea, but diarrhea in American style\\n55 dictator\\n56 dictionary\\n57 die-hard\\n58 dietitian\\n59 differ from, differ with\\n60 different\\n61 from, different to\\n62 diffuse, defuse\\n63 dike\\n64 dilapidated\\n65 dilemma\\n66 diphtheria\\n67 disabled people\\n68 disassemble, dissemble\\n69 disassociate\\n70 disaster\\n71 disc, disk\\n72 discernible\\n73 discomfit, discomfort\\n74 discount rate\\n75 discover\\n76 discreet, discrete\\n77 discriminatory language\\n78 diseases\\n79 disinterested, uninterested\\n80 disorientate\\n81 dispatch\\n82 dispel\\n83 dispensable\\n84 disposal, disposition\\n85 distances\\n86 distinct, distinctive\\n87 district attorney\\n88 DJIA or the Dow\\n89 dive, dived\\n90 divorcee\\n91 Dnestr\\n92 doctor\\n93 DOD\\n94 dollar sign\\n95 domino, dominoes\\n96 do(cid:25)s and don(cid:25)ts\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n188\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n189\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n97 double\\n98 doughnut\\n99 douse, dowse\\n100 downhill\\n101 downpayment\\n102 downplay\\n103 Down(cid:25)s syndrome\\n104 downtown\\n105 draft, draught\\n106 dramatic\\n107 driving licence, but American style driver\\'s\\nlicense\\n108 drop out, dropout\\n109 drop shot\\n110 drown\\n111 drunk, drunken\\n112 Druze\\n113 dual, duel\\n114 dual listing\\n115 due\\n116 due process\\n117 Duesseldorf, Germany\\n118 duffel\\n119 dumb\\n120 Dunkirk\\n121 dwarf, dwarfs\\n122 dyeing, dying\\n123 dyke\\n124 dynamo, dynamos\\n125 dysentery\\n\\ndachshund\\n\\nDaimler-Benz\\n\\nNote hyphen.\\n\\nDalai Lama\\n\\ndais, lectern, podium, pulpit, rostrum\\n\\nA speaker stands behind a lectern (a stand for notes) on a podium and in a pulpit. Several speakers\\ncan fit on a dais or rostrum or platform.\\n\\nTibet(cid:25)s most revered spiritual leader, seen by Tibetans as the reincarnation of a long line of\\nBuddhist god-kings. The Panchen Lama is the second highest figure in Tibet(cid:25)s spiritual hierarchy.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n189\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n190\\n\\nUse dashes sparingly, never to set off relative clauses in a sentence. For the sake of clarity, dashes\\nshould be double ((cid:19)) and hyphens single (-). A single dash may be used as a separator in alerts\\nand headlines where space is tight, but not in text. Dashes are followed by lower case unless they\\nare used to label sections of a list: The study concluded: (cid:19) Four out of five people said they\\npreferred watching television to playing sport (cid:19) Only one in 10 respondents had played sport in the\\npast month (cid:19) Six out of 10 had watched sport on television in the past month\\n\\nStrictly a plural noun, but treat as if it were singular, e.g. The data was corrupted.\\n\\ndashes\\n\\ndata\\n\\ndatabase\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\ndates\\n\\nUse the sequence month/day/year, e.g. Iraq(cid:25)s invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2., 1990, led to... or the\\nAugust 2 invasion or the August 1990 invasion. If a specific date is used, put the year inside\\ncommas. Spell out months in text but abbreviate them followed by a full stop when they are used\\nwith a specific date (cid:19) Jan.1, Feb. 14, Aug. 5, Sept. 11, Oct. 24, Nov. 5, Dec. 25.\\n\\nIn datelines, use Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec with no full stop. If you\\nneed to abbreviate for a table use the first three letters of each month: Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul\\nAug Sep Oct Nov Dec. There is no full stop. When spelling out duration, write the tournament runs\\nfrom May 22 to 24 not runs from May 22-24. Write arrived on Monday not arrived Monday and on\\nTuesday, on Wednesday, on Thursday rather than yesterday, today, tomorrow. An exception is\\nmade for copy in the Americas, where because of subscriber preferences our style is to drop the\\n(cid:28)on(cid:29) before days of the week. Write the 1939-45 war but from 1939 to 1945 not from 1939-45.\\nSimilarly between 1939 and 1945 and not between 1939-45. Write 9/11, not 9-11.\\n\\ndaughter-in-law, daughters-in-law\\n\\ndaylight-saving time\\n\\ndays of the week\\n\\nCapitalise them and do not abbreviate. If necessary in tabulation abbreviate without a full stop: Mon,\\nTues, Wed, Thurs, Fri, Sat, Sun\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n190\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nday to day\\n\\n191\\n\\nHyphenate if used as an adjective. We live from day to day and find our food on a day-to-day basis.\\n\\nDescribe people as deaf only if they are totally without hearing. Otherwise write that their hearing is\\nimpaired or that they have only partial hearing. Never use deaf and dumb. See  stereotypes and\\nvalue judgments\\n\\nAllies\\' invasion of France, June 6, 1944.\\n\\nDrug Enforcement Administration (U.S.).\\n\\nD-Day\\n\\nDEA\\n\\ndeaf\\n\\ndeathbed\\n\\nBoth noun and adjective.\\n\\ndeath toll\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\ndecades\\n\\ndecided, decisive\\n\\ndecimals\\n\\n1960s not 1960(cid:25)s. The early forties, sixties, seventies.\\n\\nIf you have decided views which are clear and resolute it is easier to make a decision and be\\ndecisive.\\n\\nFigures are normally rounded to two significant decimals, with halves rounded upwards. Thus\\n15.564 becomes 15.56, while 15.565 becomes 15.57.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n191\\n\\n\\x0cLiterally to reduce by one-tenth, loosely to reduce very heavily. Not, however, to virtually wipe out.\\n\\n192\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ndecimate\\n\\ndefeat\\n\\nYou are defeated by something not to something. Do not write West Bromwich Albion(cid:25)s defeat to\\nWolverhampton Wanderers.\\n\\ndefence, but American style is defense\\n\\ndefendant\\n\\ndefinite, definitive\\n\\nDefinite means fixed, exact or clear. Definitive conveys elements of limiting or final. The board made\\na definite decision about its definitive offer.\\n\\ndefinitely\\n\\nUsually adds little as either an adverb or an ajective. Avoid.\\n\\ndefunct\\n\\nNo need to use, now defunct.\\n\\ndefuse, diffuse\\n\\ndegree-day\\n\\ndeletion\\n\\nTo defuse is to make something harmless, to diffuse is to disperse.\\n\\nA measurement used in the consumption and trading of energy. It is a difference of one degree for\\none day compared with a standard average temperature for that day.\\n\\nIndicate the omission of words from a quoted passage by using three full stops with a space before\\nand after (also known as ellipsis), e.g. (cid:28)We will fight ... and we will win.(cid:29) The word after the dots is\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n192\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n193\\n\\ncapitalised if it is part of a new sentence, e.g. (cid:28)We will fight and we will win ... We will never\\nsurrender(cid:29). You may drop words in this way only if the deletion does not alter the sense of the\\nquote.\\n\\nTo delight is a transitive verb that requires an object. Jane Bloggs delighted her fans with an easy\\nvictory not Jane Bloggs delighted with an easy victory. Delight is a strong verb. Use sparingly and to\\ngood effect.\\n\\ndelight\\n\\ndemagogue\\n\\nNot demagog.\\n\\ndemise\\n\\ndemonstrator\\n\\ndenials\\n\\ndenote, connote\\n\\nMeans death or to transfer on death, not just decline or decay.\\n\\ndemolished, destroyed\\n\\nDo not write totally demolished, totally destroyed. Both words imply complete destruction.\\n\\nNever qualify a denial, e.g. flatly denied, categorically denied, unless quoting someone. A no\\ncomment is not a denial. Write declined to comment rather than refused to comment, which\\nsuggests that the person you spoke to was under an obligation to comment. See rebut, refute.\\n\\nDenote is to indicate or mark by a sign. A wedding ring denoted his married status. Connote is to\\nimply attributes. Marriage connotes short-term bliss. Both words are probably best avoided.\\n\\ndependant, dependent\\n\\nThe person in a state of dependency is a dependant. He is dependent. But American style uses\\ndependent as both noun and adjective.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n193\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ndeprecate\\n\\nExpress disapproval of, deplore. Do not confuse with depreciate.\\n\\n194\\n\\nA gradual change in the value of a currency usually as a result of market forces. Do not confuse\\nwith devaluation, when a government orders a weaking currency change.\\n\\nA period of low economic activity with high unemployment and numerous business failures.\\nCapitalise when referring to the one in October, 1929: the Great Depression. See also recession,\\nslump.\\n\\nConvert metres to feet not yards. One metre equals 3.28 feet.\\n\\nUse dispatch for the noun and verb, although send is a better substitute for the verb.\\n\\nThe easing or end of strained relations between countries.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n194\\n\\ndepreciation\\n\\ndepression\\n\\ndepths\\n\\nde rigueur\\n\\nNot de rigeur. Best avoided.\\n\\ndesiccate\\n\\ndespatch\\n\\ndesperate\\n\\nUse although.\\n\\ndetente\\n\\ndespite the fact that\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ndesignate\\n\\n195\\n\\nHyphenate. Capitalise the first word, but only if used as a formal title before a name,\\nPresident-designate Joan Brown but chairman-designate.\\n\\ndevaluation\\n\\nA downwards change in the value of a currency, the opposite of revaluation, and usually imposed\\nby government order. Do not confuse with depreciation which is a more gradual change usually\\nbrought about by market forces.\\n\\ndevice, devise\\n\\nDevice is the noun, devise is the verb.\\n\\ndexterous\\n\\ndiagnosis, prognosis\\n\\nDiagnose a disease not a person. Prognosis is forecasting, or a forecast, especially of a disease.\\n\\ndiarrhoea, but diarrhea in American style\\n\\nUse of the word dictator implies a value judgment, so avoid it unless quoting someone.\\n\\nUse Chambers 20th Century Dictionary as a reference. Use the first spelling listed. However,\\nAmerica uses Webster(cid:25)s New World College Dictionary.\\n\\ndictator\\n\\ndictionary\\n\\ndie-hard\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n195\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n196\\n\\ndietitian\\n\\ndiffer from, differ with\\n\\nIf you differ from someone you are unlike each other. If you differ with someone then you disagree.\\nThe expression differ from can be used in both senses.\\n\\nCan often be excised, as in Yorkshire produces six different types of cheese.\\n\\nPrefer different from, which is acceptable in all contexts, rather than different to or different than.\\n\\nTo diffuse is to disperse, to defuse is to make something harmless.\\n\\ndifferent\\n\\nfrom, different to\\n\\ndiffuse, defuse\\n\\ndike\\n\\nNot dyke.\\n\\ndilapidated\\n\\nNot delapidated.\\n\\ndilemma\\n\\ndiphtheria\\n\\nNote the h after the p.\\n\\nDo not use simply to mean a problem. A dilemma arises when faced with two (or more) undesirable\\nalternatives.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n196\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ndisabled people\\n\\n197\\n\\nAs with a person(cid:25)s race or sex, we should mention physical disabilities only if they are relevant to\\nthe story. Report disabilities without sentimentality or condescension. See  stereotypes and value\\njudgments\\n\\ndisassemble, dissemble\\n\\nDisassemble is to take apart, dissemble is to conceal or disguise, or be a hypocrite.\\n\\nDo not devalue this word by overuse. Avoid it in sports reporting.\\n\\nUse disk when writing about computers, disc in all other contexts. Slipped disc but computer hard\\ndisk.\\n\\nDiscomfit is to rout, defeat, balk or disconcert. It is much stronger than discomfort which is to make\\nuneasy or deprive of comfort.\\n\\nMost central banks do not use this expression any more, so find out the relevant interest rate they\\nuse in a specific country to guide the base level of interest rates.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n197\\n\\ndisassociate\\n\\nUse dissociate.\\n\\ndisaster\\n\\ndisc, disk\\n\\ndiscernible\\n\\nNot discernable.\\n\\ndiscomfit, discomfort\\n\\ndiscount rate\\n\\ndiscover\\n\\nFind is shorter and better.\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ndiscreet, discrete\\n\\nDiscreet is prudent or modest while discrete is separate.\\n\\ndiscriminatory language\\n\\n198\\n\\nDo not use language that perpetuates sexual, racial, religious or other stereotypes. Such language\\nis offensive, out of date and often simply inaccurate. A person(cid:25)s gender, race, religion, nationality,\\nsexual orientation or marital status should not be cited unless it is relevant to the story. Even then,\\nconsideration must be given to where in the story such information needs to be placed. It is wrong\\nto assume that police, firefighters or soldiers are men. Police is shorter than policemen anyway. Do\\nnot describe a woman(cid:25)s dress or hairstyle where you would not describe a man(cid:25)s. Where possible\\nuse the same term for men and women, e.g. mayor or poet, not mayoress or poetess. Use\\nchairman, chairwoman not chair; spokesman, spokeswoman not spokesperson.\\n\\ndiseases\\n\\nDo not capitalise e.g. leukemia, pneumonia, except when named after a person e.g. Parkinson\\'s\\ndisease.\\n\\ndisinterested, uninterested\\n\\nDisinterested means impartial while uninterested means the opposite of interested. People can be\\nboth interested in an issue and disinterested.\\n\\nNot despatch. Including dispatch rider, mentioned in dispatches, and dispatch box. In most cases\\nsend is better, as of troops, aid, etc.\\n\\ndisorientate\\n\\nUse disorient, which is shorter.\\n\\ndispatch\\n\\ndispel\\n\\nDispelled, dispelling.\\n\\ndispensable\\n\\nNot dispensible. Think of dispensation.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n198\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ndisposal, disposition\\n\\nDisposal is get rid of, disposition is arrange or distribute.\\n\\n199\\n\\nUse figures figures for 10 and above, spell out one to nine miles/km.\\n\\nDistinct means separate, clear, well-defined. Distinctive is a distinguishing quality. A distinct mark\\non his forehead made him distinctive from his twin brother.\\n\\nDo not abbreviate to DA. Capitalise before a name: District Attorney Jack Walton.\\n\\nThe Dow Jones industrial average is the main benchmark U.S. stock market index.\\n\\ndistances\\n\\ndistinct, distinctive\\n\\ndistrict attorney\\n\\nDJIA or the Dow\\n\\ndive, dived\\n\\nNot dove for past tense.\\n\\ndivorcee\\n\\nMale or female.\\n\\nDnestr\\n\\ndoctor\\n\\nUse Transdniestria for the region of Moldova, not Dnestr.\\n\\nWhen used as title for a physician, abbreviate to Dr without a full stop. Do not use Dr for doctors of\\nphilosophy, etc.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n199\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n200\\n\\nDepartment of Defense, the Pentagon (U.S.). Avoid using the acronym.\\n\\nDOD\\n\\ndollar sign\\n\\nUse the dollar sign $ before numbers, e.g. $100. Use upper-case abbreviations A, C, HK etc.\\nimmediately before the dollar sign (no space in between) to indicate Australian, Canadian, Hong\\nKong and other non-U.S. dollars, e.g. C$6.4 billion. The following non-U.S. dollars can be\\nabbreviated after first reference: Australia (A), Brunei (B), Canada (C), Fiji (F), Hong Kong (HK),\\nJamaica (J), New Zealand (NZ), Singapore (S), Taiwan (T) and Zimbabwe (Z). If there is no letter\\nbefore the $ sign, readers will assume U.S. dollars are meant.\\n\\nDouble-barrelled, double-breasted, double-cross, but double fault in tennis, doubleheader.\\n\\nNot donut, unless it is part of a formal company name.\\n\\nDouse is to plunge into water, to splash or to extinguish. Dowse is to search for underground water\\nusing a divining rod.\\n\\ndomino, dominoes\\n\\ndo(cid:25)s and don(cid:25)ts\\n\\ndouble\\n\\ndoughnut\\n\\ndouse, dowse\\n\\ndownhill\\n\\nOne word in Alpine skiing.\\n\\ndownpayment\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n200\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n201\\n\\nDo not use mongol or mongoloid. American style is Down syndrome.\\n\\nUse draft for a sketch, a detachment of men, a money order, draught for a drink or the depth to\\nwhich a ship sinks in water.\\n\\nA much overworked word. If an event is dramatic it should be clear from the story.\\n\\ndriving licence, but American style driver\\'s license\\n\\ndownplay\\n\\nWrite play down.\\n\\nDown(cid:25)s syndrome\\n\\ndowntown\\n\\nWrite central Paris not downtown Paris.\\n\\ndraft, draught\\n\\ndramatic\\n\\ndrop out, dropout\\n\\nThe verb is drop out, the noun dropout.\\n\\ndrop shot\\n\\nTwo words in tennis.\\n\\ndrown\\n\\ndrunk, drunken\\n\\nHe drowned, or he drowned his cat, but not he was drowned, unless by someone else.\\n\\nI am drunk, he is drunk, but drunken behaviour, drunken driver, not drunk driver. Also dunkenness,\\nnot drunkeness.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n201\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n202\\n\\nNot Druse. A sect of Islam whose adherents live mainly in Lebanon, Syria and Israel.\\n\\nDual is twofold, e.g. dual-purpose. A duel is a fight between two people.\\n\\nA company which is listed on more than one stock exchange.\\n\\nDue is an adjective and must modify a noun or a pronoun. It cannot modify a verb. When in doubt\\nreplace it with because of, owing to or caused by. It is correct to write The drop in temperature was\\ndue to a broken window but not The temperature dropped due to a broken window. The simple rule\\nis if in doubt always use because of.\\n\\ndue process\\n\\nCan mean several things. Make sure the meaning is clear.\\n\\nDuesseldorf, Germany\\n\\nNot duffle. From the town of Duffel, near Antwerp.\\n\\nDruze\\n\\ndual, duel\\n\\ndual listing\\n\\ndue\\n\\nduffel\\n\\ndumb\\n\\nUse mute.\\n\\nDunkirk\\n\\nNot Dunkerque.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n202\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n203\\n\\nDyeing changes the colour of clothes. Dying is destined for death.\\n\\ndwarf, dwarfs\\n\\nNot dwarves.\\n\\ndyeing, dying\\n\\ndyke\\n\\nUse dike.\\n\\ndynamo, dynamos\\n\\ndysentery\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n203\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n204\\n\\nE\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 each\\n2 each and every\\n3 earth\\n4 earthquakes\\n5 Eastern Rite Churches\\n6 EBIT\\n7 EBITDA\\n8 EBITDAR\\n9 EBRD\\n10 ECB\\n11 Ecuadorean\\n12 effete\\n13 Eid al-Adha\\n14 Eid al-Fitr\\n15 Eire\\n16 either\\n17 elderly\\n18 -elect\\n19 election/elections\\n20 elicit, illicit\\n21 ellipsis\\n22 elusive\\n23 email\\n24 embarrass, embarrassed,\\nembarrassing\\n25 embargo, boycott\\n26 embattled\\n27 emerge\\n28 emigrate, immigrate\\n29 emotive words\\n30 employee\\n31 enormity\\n32 encyclopedia\\n33 England\\n34 en route\\n35 enquire, enquiry\\n36 enrol\\n37 ensure, insure, assure\\n38 envelop, envelope\\n39 envision\\n40 epicentre\\n41 EPS\\n42 equal, equalling, equalled\\n43 equable, equitable\\n44 equally as\\n45 escalate, escalation\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n204\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n205\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 escapers, not escapees\\n47 Esfahan, not Isfahan, Iran.\\n48 Eskimo\\n49 espresso\\n50 estimate\\n51 estimated at about\\n52 et cetera\\n53 Ethiopian names\\n54 ethnicity\\n55 euphemism\\n56 EU\\n57 euro\\n58 Eurobond\\n59 European\\n60 European names\\n61 Eurosceptic\\n62 euro zone\\n63 eventuate\\n64 ever\\n65 every day, everyday\\n66 everyone, every one\\n67 evoke, invoke\\n68 ex-\\n69 exacerbate\\n70 exactly\\n71 exaggerate\\n72 exam\\n73 execution\\n74 except, accept\\n75 excerpt\\n76 exchange rates\\n77 exclamation mark, exclamation\\npoint\\n78 exorbitant\\n79 exorcise\\n80 expatriate\\n81 expect, anticipate\\n82 expel, expelling, expelled\\n83 explicit, implicit\\n84 exports overseas\\n85 extra\\n86 extra cover\\n87 extramarital\\n88 eyewitness\\n\\neach\\n\\nEach takes a singular verb. Each of us is guilty. Be careful when it follows a noun that is the real\\nsubject of the sentence. We each are guilty of theft, which is equivalent to We are all guilty of theft,\\neach one of us.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n205\\n\\n\\x0c206\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\neach and every\\n\\nPlain each will do, or plain every.\\n\\nearth\\n\\nearthquakes\\n\\nGenerally lower case, but capitalise the Planet Earth.\\n\\nUse plain (cid:28)magnitude(cid:29) to describe earthquakes. This is a measure of ground motion as recorded\\non seismographs. The scale devised by Charles Richter is not reliable for certain types of\\nearthquake and is no longer widely used. The U.S. Geological Survey favours magnitude, more\\nexactly known as the "moment magnitude", which gives readings consistent with the Richter scale.\\nMagnitude is not an automatic guide to likely damage. This depends on other factors such as the\\ndepth of the quake below the earth\\'s surface. The strongest quake ever measured was 9.5\\nmagnitude in Chile in May, 1960, while there are more than 1 million minor tremors of between 2\\nand 2.9 magnitude every year. Besides Richter, there are other ways to measure earthquakes\\nincluding the Mercalli scale or the Japanese Shindo scale. These measure the intensity of an\\nearthquake only at particular points on the earth\\'s surface without giving an overall reading. The\\nepicentre is point on the earth\\'s surface above the subterranean centre, or focus, of an earthquake.\\n\\nEastern Rite Churches\\n\\nEastern Rite Churches returned to communion with Rome after the 1054 East-West split between\\nRome and Orthodoxy but worship in an Eastern, usually Orthodox rite. Each returned to unity with\\nRome at a different time in the past 900 years or so.\\n\\nEarnings before interest and tax, also called operating earnings.\\n\\nEarnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, also called core earnings.\\n\\nEBIT\\n\\nEBITDA\\n\\nEBITDAR\\n\\nEarnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent. Accounting term used by analysts\\nand companies instead of EBITDA in industries where equipment or asset rentals figure large, such\\nas aircraft rentals by airlines.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n206\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n207\\n\\nEuropean Bank for Reconstruction and Development, set up by the major industrialised countries to\\nhelp centrally planned economies in 27 countries, from central Europe to central Asia, move to a\\nfree market in a democratic environment. It is owned by governments but invests mainly in private\\nenterprise, usually with commercial partners.\\n\\nEuropean Central Bank, based in Frankfurt, sets monetary policy for the euro zone countries.\\n\\nMeans exhausted or sterile, not just weak or foppish.\\n\\nA Muslim holiday marking the climax of the annual pilgrimage (haj) on the 10th day of the 12th\\nmonth of the Muslim calendar.\\n\\nA Muslim holiday marking the end of the fasting month of Ramadan, the ninth month of the Muslim\\ncalendar.\\n\\nEBRD\\n\\nECB\\n\\nEcuadorean\\n\\neffete\\n\\nEid al-Adha\\n\\nEid al-Fitr\\n\\nUse Republic of Ireland.\\n\\nEire\\n\\neither\\n\\nEither is a choice of two things. You can either come or go. The word can often simply be excised. It\\ncannot be used with a choice of more than two things. You can have ice cream, cake or pudding.\\nNot You can have either ice cream, cake or pudding. Do not use either when you mean each. He\\nhad a beautiful girl on each arm, not on either arm.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n207\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n208\\n\\nAvoid, because the terms are always relative. In some societies a 50-year-old is already aged. In\\nothers a sprightly 90-year-old who has just written a novel or run a marathon would object to being\\ncalled aged or elderly.\\n\\nelderly\\n\\n-elect\\n\\nelicit, illicit\\n\\nellipsis\\n\\nelusive\\n\\nemail\\n\\nHyphenated and lower case. President-elect Frederick Green.\\n\\nelection/elections\\n\\nSingular if it is a single parliamentary election, plural if several votes are taking place\\ncontemporaneously. A general election in a country such as Britain is singular, but when the United\\nStates votes on the same day for a president, and members of the Senate and the House of\\nRepresentatives, these are elections.\\n\\nElicit is to draw forth or to evoke. Illicit is not permitted or illegal. A dalliance may elicit an illicit\\nrelationship.\\n\\nIndicate the omission of words from a quoted passage by using three full stops with a space before\\nand after, e.g. (cid:28)We will fight ... and we will win.(cid:29) The word after the dots is capitalised if it is part of\\na new sentence, e.g. (cid:28)We will fight and we will win ... We will never surrender(cid:29). You may drop\\nwords in this way only if the deletion does not alter the sense of the quote.\\n\\nUsually superfluous and shown by context. Police are hunting an elusive killer.\\n\\nOne word. Other compound words prefixed with e- should be hyphenated, however, eg\\ne-commerce, e-banking.\\n\\nembarrass, embarrassed, embarrassing\\n\\nDouble r and double s.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n208\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nembargo, boycott\\n\\n209\\n\\nAn embargo is a legal ban on trade. A boycott is the refusal of a group to deal with a person or use\\na commodity.\\n\\nembattled\\n\\nA tired clich\'c3\'a9. Do not use.\\n\\nemerge\\n\\nemigrate, immigrate\\n\\nemotive words\\n\\nNews does not just emerge, so it is a nonsense to write It has emerged that. Give the reader a clear\\nsource for all your information.\\n\\nYou emigrate when you leave a country and you immigrate when you come to a country. Similarly\\nemigrant, immigrant\\n\\nSome words have emotional significance and must be used with special care in the interest of\\nobjectivity. Examples of such words are terrorist (see separate entry on terrorism), extremist and\\nmob. Avoid using contentious labels. If we describe a violent act as terrorism we could imply the\\njournalist is judging the action and taking sides. It is not the role of a Reuters journalist to adjudicate.\\nWe can use such words when we directly quote named sources. When giving background in a\\nrunning story on a specific act of violence, refer in general terms to terrorism without attribution to\\nparticular groups or making judgment. There are alternatives to terrorist which are more factual, e.g.\\ngunmen, bombers, bomb attacks, assassinations. The word guerrilla can be more readily used\\nwhen describing forces fighting governments for control of territory, most usually in the countryside.\\nRelatively small groups are best described by their ideologies or politics. The basic rule should be to\\ndescribe what a movement wants or is aiming for rather than apply a label.\\n\\nemployee\\n\\nenormity\\n\\nDoes not mean just very big, but an outrage, iniquity or great crime.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n209\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nencyclopedia\\n\\n210\\n\\nDo not use England as a synonym for Britain or the United Kingdom. Britain comprises England,\\nScotland and Wales. The United Kingdom comprises Britain and Northern Ireland. Use Britain\\nunless the Irish context is important.\\n\\nEngland\\n\\nen route\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nenquire, enquiry\\n\\nUse inquire, inquiry.\\n\\nenrol\\n\\nenvision\\n\\nUse envisage.\\n\\nepicentre\\n\\nenrolled, enrolling, enrolment, but in American style enroll, enrolling, enrollment.\\n\\nensure, insure, assure\\n\\nEnsure means to make sure, insure to guarantee against loss. You assure your life.\\n\\nenvelop, envelope\\n\\nThe verb is envelop, enveloping, enveloped. The noun is envelope.\\n\\nThe point on the earth\\'s surface above the centre, or focus, of an earthquake.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n210\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n211\\n\\nEPS\\n\\nEarnings per share. The portion of a company\\'s profit allocated to each outstanding share of\\ncommon stock. EPS serves as an indicator of a company\\'s profitability.\\n\\nequal, equalling, equalled\\n\\nDo not write more equal or less equal because things are either equal or not. Use more or less\\nequitable. In American style, equal, equaling, equaled.\\n\\nEquable is even and without great variation or extremes. Equitable is just or fair.\\n\\nDo not use together. Either She was equally bright or She was as bright.\\n\\nIn most cases rise or increase would be simpler and as effective for both verb and noun. Escalate\\nmay be used where we are talking of a step-by-step increase.\\n\\nequable, equitable\\n\\nequally as\\n\\nescalate, escalation\\n\\nescapers, not escapees\\n\\nEsfahan, not Isfahan, Iran.\\n\\nEskimo\\n\\nespresso\\n\\nestimate\\n\\nDo not use to refer to the people of northern Canada, who use the term Inuit to describe\\nthemselves. There are about 56,000 Inuit in Canada. They live in an area from Labrador to Alaska.\\nThe singular is Inuk, the language is Inuktitut.\\n\\nWhen referring to economic trends and business performance, use estimate to refer to an\\napproximate calculation of performance up to the present (or a date in the past). Use forecast when\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n211\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n212\\n\\nreferring to expected future performance based on available data. Use projection to refer to\\nprobable future performance based on current trends or assumptions of likely developments.\\n\\nestimated at about\\n\\nTautology. Plain estimated at will do.\\n\\net cetera\\n\\nUse the abbreviation etc. (with full stop), but try to avoid.\\n\\nEthiopian names\\n\\nThe word ato means Mr and should not be used. Use only the first name at second reference, e.g.\\nMengistu Haile Mariam (cid:19) Mengistu said ...\\n\\nethnicity\\n\\nSee race\\n\\neuphemism\\n\\nEU\\n\\neuro\\n\\nNo capital letter\\n\\nEurobond\\n\\nEuphemism, beloved of bureaucrats, social scientists and the military, seeks to cloak reality,\\nsometimes unpleasant, in innocuous words. Shun it e.g: kill not terminate with extreme prejudice,\\npoor not disadvantaged. Severe storms kill people, not leave them dead.\\n\\nThe European Union. The Treaty on European Union, commonly known as the Maastricht Treaty,\\ncame into effect on November 1, 1993 and formally created a new entity, the EU, with\\nresponsibilities expanded beyond the EC(cid:25)s focus on economic and trade issues.\\n\\nCapitalised. Bond issued by a country or company in a currency that is not their own, e.g. a\\nJapanese company issuing a dollar bond. Not to be confused with euro-denominated bonds, which\\nare bonds issued in euros.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n212\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nEuropean\\n\\nDo not use as a synonym for white in a racial context.\\n\\nEuropean names\\n\\n213\\n\\nUse lower case for particles within a personal name, e.g. F. W. de Klerk, Maurice de la Haye,\\nRichard von Weizsaecker, Miguel de la Madrid, Ramon da Silva, Jaime Aragon y Galicia, Hendrik\\nvan den Berg. The particles are usually retained at second reference, but in German usage the von\\nis dropped. Upper case is used when such particles occur at the beginning of a geographical name,\\ne.g. Las Palmas, El Salvador, La Raya del Palancar or at the start of a sentence, e.g. De Klerk said\\n... See also Spanish and Portuguese names\\n\\nTwo words, lower case, no hyphen. The group of countries that have the euro as their currency.\\n\\nEurosceptic\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\neuro zone\\n\\neventuate\\n\\nPrefer result.\\n\\never\\n\\ntautology when it follows a superlative (as in biggest, best, strongest etc). In such cases, drop it\\nunless in direct quotes.\\n\\nTwo words for the adverb and one word for the adjective. Every day we remind him not to wear\\neveryday clothes to a wedding.\\n\\nevery day, everyday\\n\\neveryone, every one\\n\\nEveryone is all the people; every one is every single person. If you can add without exception then\\nyou need every one. Everyone in the village loves a party and every one wore fancy dress.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n213\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nevoke, invoke\\n\\n214\\n\\nevoke means to bring to mind, invoke to call upon solemnly, e.g. In a speech evoking memories of\\nthe civil war he invoked God(cid:25)s help in preventing fresh bloodshed.\\n\\nMake sure this prefix is hyphenated to the word it limits. Note the difference between a\\nConservative ex-minister and an ex-Conservative minister. Prefer former in written text , e.g. Former\\nBrazilian finance minister Jorge Braga was killed on Tuesday when... Ex- may be used for brevity in\\nheadlines, e.g. (cid:28)Ex-minister killed in Brazil air crash(cid:29).\\n\\nA clumsy word devalued by overuse. It means to make bitter or more violent. Usually writers mean\\nsimply to make worse.\\n\\nCannot be qualified, so \\'almost exactly\\' is not acceptable.\\n\\nex-\\n\\nexacerbate\\n\\nexactly\\n\\nexaggerate\\n\\nexam\\n\\nexecution\\n\\nexcerpt\\n\\nfrom, not of.\\n\\nContraction for academic examinations only.\\n\\nUse only for lawful killings after due judicial process.\\n\\nexcept, accept\\n\\nExcept is to leave out. Accept is to take or receive.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n214\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nexchange rates\\n\\n215\\n\\nNormally quote only a single rate for the value of one currency against another, usually the middle\\nrate between the bid and offer quotations. For example, if the bid and offer rates of a particular\\ncurrency against the dollar were 2.6050 and 2.6150 we would take the difference between the two\\n(0.0100), halve it (0.0050) and add to 2.6050. This gives a rate of 2.61. If the difference is an odd\\nnumber, quote as near to the mid-point as possible. In foreign exchange market reports give the bid\\nand offer rates. Rates are generally carried to four places right of the decimal, except for yen, which\\ngoes to two places. However, if both bid and offer are round numbers at fewer decimal places,\\nleave off the extra zeros. Do not repeat recurring numbers when giving the second rate in the\\nsequence, e.g. 1.4845/65 not 1.4845/4865, except when the rate moves to a new higher digit: The\\ndollar rose to 1.4895/4905 marks from 1.4850/60 at yesterday(cid:25)s close. Money market rates and\\nyields are generally quoted in decimals, so if a trader talks of a 6-1/4 percent yield this is best\\nwritten in copy as 6.25 percent.\\n\\nexclamation mark, exclamation point\\n\\nAvoid other than in quotations.\\n\\nexorbitant\\n\\nexorcise\\n\\nexpatriate\\n\\nNot expatriot. But compatriot.\\n\\nexpect, anticipate\\n\\nThese are not synonyms. If you anticipate something, you not only expect it but take precautionary\\naction to deal with it.\\n\\nexpel, expelling, expelled\\n\\nexplicit, implicit\\n\\nExplicit is stated plainly; implicit is implied or suggested.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n215\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nexports overseas\\n\\nA tautology. Exports is sufficient.\\n\\n216\\n\\nDo not use a hyphen when it means \\'outside of\\' unless the prefix is followed by a word beginning\\nwith \\'a\\' or a capital letter.\\n\\nTwo words for the field position in cricket.\\n\\nextra\\n\\nextra cover\\n\\nextramarital\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\neyewitness\\n\\nprefer witness.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n216\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n217\\n\\nF\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 FAA\\n2 face to face\\n3 facility\\n4 Fahrenheit\\n5 Falklands\\n6 fallacy, fallibility\\n7 Fallopian tubes\\n8 FAO\\n9 Faroes\\n10 farther, farthest\\n11 fast bowler\\n12 faze, phase\\n13 FBI\\n14 FCC\\n15 FDA\\n16 fears, hopes\\n17 fedayeen\\n18 feet, foot\\n19 fellow\\n20 Ferris wheel\\n21 fewer, less than\\n22 fiance, fiancee\\n23 fiasco, fiascos\\n24 fief\\n25 field marshal\\n26 FIFA\\n27 fighter jets\\n28 Figures\\n29 filibuster\\n30 Filipino\\n31 film titles\\n32 finalise\\n33 financial year\\n34 firefighter\\n35 firm\\n36 first lady\\n37 first quarter, first-quarter\\n38 first slip\\n39 First World War\\n40 fiscal year\\n41 flack, flak\\n42 flair, flare\\n43 flaunt, flout\\n44 flay, flail\\n45 Fleet Street\\n46 flight numbers\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n217\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n218\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n47 flip-flop\\n48 flounder, founder\\n49 flyer\\n50 flyhalf\\n51 focus, focused\\n52 following\\n53 follow up, follow-up\\n54 foodstuffs, supplies\\n55 foot\\n56 foot-and-mouth disease\\n57 forbear, forebear\\n58 forbid, forbidding, forbade\\n59 forced\\n60 forecast\\n61 forego, forgo\\n62 forehand\\n63 foreign language phrases\\n64 foreign exchange rates\\n65 forensic\\n66 foreseeable\\n67 forever, not for ever.\\n68 forex\\n69 former, latter\\n70 format, formatted\\n71 formula, formulas, not formulae.\\n72 Formula One\\n73 forsake, forsaken, forsook\\n74 forswear\\n75 Fort\\n76 fortnight\\n77 fortuitous, fortunate\\n78 forward\\n79 foul, fowl\\n80 four-wheel drive\\n81 Fourth of July\\n82 fractions\\n83 Frankenstein\\n84 Freddie Mac\\n85 free kick\\n86 french fries\\n87 fresco, frescoes\\n88 Frisbee\\n89 front line\\n90 FSA\\n91 FTC\\n92 front-runner, front-running\\n93 fuchsia\\n94 fuel, fuelled, but in American style fuel, fueling,\\nfueled\\n95 fulfil, fulfilling, fulfilled, but fulfilment\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n218\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n219\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n96 full\\n97 fulsome\\n98 fundamentalist\\n99 fundraiser, fundraising\\n100 fused participles\\n101 furlough, not furlow\\n102 future plans\\n\\nFAA\\n\\nFederal Aviation Administration (US).\\n\\nRedundant when used to describe a meeting.\\n\\nface to face\\n\\nfacility\\n\\nFahrenheit\\n\\nA word that can mean almost anything. Avoid and be specific if possible, e.g. a base, a factory, a\\ndepot.\\n\\nUse Fahrenheit if it is the scale of the country involved, with Celsius conversion in brackets. Spell in\\nfull at first reference, abbreviating to C and F subsequently, 25 Celsius, 40C. Freezing point in\\nCelsius is 0 degrees, in Fahrenheit 32 degrees. Convert from Celsius to Fahrenheit for\\ntemperatures above zero by multiplying by 9, dividing by 5 and adding 32, e.g. 20 Celsius (68\\nFahrenheit). For temperatures below zero multiply by nine, divide by five and subtract from 32, e.g.\\nminus 15C (5F), minus 20C (minus 4F). Convert from Fahrenheit to Celsius for temperatures above\\n32 by subtracting 32, multiplying by five and dividing by nine. For temperatures below freezing take\\nthe total number of degrees by which the temperature is below 32, multiply by five and divide by\\nnine, e.g. minus 8F is 40 below freezing, 40 x 5/9 gives you 22, therefore minus 22C.\\n\\nThis is the internationally accepted name of the Falkland Islands but from an Argentine dateline they\\nmay also be called by the Argentine name (cid:19) the Malvinas (Falkland Islands).\\n\\nFalklands\\n\\nfallacy, fallibility\\n\\nFallacy is something regarded as true but actually false. Fallibility is a capacity or tendency to make\\nmistakes.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n219\\n\\n\\x0cFallopian tubes\\n\\nCapitalise Fallopian.\\n\\nFAO\\n\\nFaroes\\n\\nNot Faeroes.\\n\\nfarther, farthest\\n\\nfast bowler\\n\\nTwo words in cricket.\\n\\nfaze, phase\\n\\nFBI\\n\\nFCC\\n\\nFDA\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n220\\n\\nFood and Agriculture Organisation (U.N. (cid:19) Rome). See www.fao.org\\n\\nUse further, furthest except when referring to physical distance.\\n\\nFaze is to worry or disturb. Phase is a stage in growth or development.\\n\\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation is the premier law enforcement agency in the United States. It\\nis part of the U.S. Department of Justice. The FBI investigates violations of federal law, including\\nhigh-profile cases on espionage, drug cartels, organised violence and crime. FBI may be used\\nalone at first reference. If the full name is used alone at first reference the initials need not be\\nbracketed in.\\n\\nFederal Communications Commission (U.S.).\\n\\nFood and Drug Administration. U.S. regulatory body for the safety and effectiveness of foods,\\nhuman and veterinary drugs, medical devices and cosmetics.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n220\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nfears, hopes\\n\\n221\\n\\nBeware of hopes and fears. Unattributed, they represent opinions. We cannot refer to hopes for a\\nsettlement of Middle East problems or fears of another oil price increase without saying who is\\ndoing the hoping or fearing. But we can refer unsourced to the common hopes and fears of\\nhumanity, e.g. Hopes of reaching the trapped miners rose... or Fears that a new epidemic of cholera\\nmight sweep... See also emotive words.\\n\\nArab or Islamic guerrillas. The singular is feda(cid:25)i so use guerrilla for simplicity(cid:25)s sake when referring\\nto one person.\\n\\nOne foot, several feet. Use foot singular as the adjective, e.g. a 12-foot-high wall.\\n\\nOften unnecessary, especially before countryman or countrywoman.\\n\\nUse fewer when referring to numbers of individuals or individual items, less for quantities, e.g.\\nFewer than 10 rescuers were hurt but Less than 1,000 tons of coal was lost.\\n\\nfedayeen\\n\\nfeet, foot\\n\\nfellow\\n\\nFerris wheel\\n\\nfewer, less than\\n\\nfiance, fiancee\\n\\nfiance is the man, fiancee the woman.\\n\\nfiasco, fiascos\\n\\nfief\\n\\nNot fiefdom.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n221\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n222\\n\\nfield marshal\\n\\nNote only one l.\\n\\nFIFA\\n\\nfighter jets\\n\\nFigures\\n\\nInternational Football Federation, based in Zurich (soccer). See www.fifa.com\\n\\nWrite fighter planes, since modern fighters are almost invariably jets.\\n\\nAlways check any numbers in a story, and then recheck them. Are they internally consistent? If a\\nnumber rises to a new number then is the second number larger than the first? Check that the units\\nof measurement are not out by a factor of 10, or a 100, or a 1,000. Try to appreciate the underlying\\nlogic of the numbers rather than accepting them at face value. Ask yourself if the numbers are\\nfeasible and realistic. Remember that a journalist plus a calculator often equals mistake.\\n\\nSpell out the digits one to nine in text except for dates and times, when figures should always be\\nused, e.g. The four foreign ministers will meet at 6 p.m. (1700 GMT) on March 3. The same applies\\nto ordinal numbers: first, second, third etc up to ninth, then 10th 100th 144th etc. Use numerals in\\nages, 4-year-old, and before millions and billions, 2 million, 5 billion. Use numerals before percent, 6\\npercent. Use numerals for dimensions, He lost 4 cm from the end of his finger.\\n\\nWrite 10 and above as figures except at the start of a sentence, e.g. Fourteen people were killed\\nwhen 20 tons of ice crashed through the roof. Do not however start a sentence with a complex\\nfigure, e.g. Two hundred and forty-three runners finished the Boston marathon ...Where possible\\nrewrite the sentence to avoid starting with a number if it is long and clumsy.\\n\\nRepeat figures in stories when they are unexpected and err on the side of caution. Place repeated\\nfigures in brackets to remove any doubt. Write ... raised bank rate to 6.5 percent (repeat 6.5\\npercent).\\n\\nFigures in brackets are generally used only for comparisons. In comparisons always put new figures\\nbefore old ones, e.g. The U.S. dollar closed at 0.9782 euros compared with 0.9804 at mid-morning.\\n\\nDo not run two sets of figures together. This can lead to errors. Separate them by a word or spell\\nout one of the two, e.g. 20,000 new 50-cent shares or 20,000 shares with a nominal value of 50\\ncents each, not 20,000 50-cent shares.\\n\\nWrite fractions as 4-1/2, 8-3/4 etc.\\n\\nRound off unwieldy figures, e.g. Japan produced 1.45 million cars in the six months ended... not\\nJapan produced 1,453,123 cars... As a rule round off millions to the nearest 10,000, thousands to\\nthe nearest 100, hundreds to the nearest 10.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n222\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n223\\n\\nFigures are normally rounded to two significant decimals, with halves rounded upwards. Thus\\n15.564 becomes 15.56, while 15.565 becomes 15.57.\\n\\nDo not round interest rates. Give them to the full number of decimal places as given by the source\\nof the information.\\n\\nRound foreign exchange quotations to four decimal places, e.g. the dollar rose to 0.9784 euros. If a\\ncountry adjusts its currency, any rate given must not be rounded off, e.g. Manchukistan announced\\na rate of 5.79831 thaler to the dollar.\\n\\nDo not round company dividends, e.g. the company announced a dividend of 0.123456 pence per\\nshare.\\n\\nWhere totals do not add up because of rounding, this should be explained.\\n\\nWhen reporting decimalised figures always use a full stop, e.g. 42.5. Do not follow the practice in\\ncontinental Europe of using a comma instead of a decimal point. When reporting thousands, use a\\ncomma, not a full stop, e.g. 10,000.\\n\\nWhen reporting a range of figures use the style 1.2 billion to 1.4 billion not 1.2-1.4 billion or between\\n400 and 500 miles not between 400-500 miles.\\n\\nAlways spell out billion, except in headlines when it can be abbreviated to bln. Use decimals before\\nmillion and billion. Write 2.5 million not two and a half million.\\n\\nTwice (cid:19) not two time or two times. Bigger numbers should be in the plural, e.g. seven times\\nchampion.\\n\\nRanges (cid:19) Repeat the denominator when describing a range of figures, e.g. $22 million to $30\\nmillion not $22 to $33 million.\\n\\nTo delay parliamentary proceedings by making long speeches.\\n\\nA native of the Philippines. Feminine Filipina. Plural Filipinos, Filipinas. The adjective is Philippine.\\n\\nBooks, films, plays, poems, operas, songs and works of art: capitalise every word in the title apart\\nfrom conjunctions, articles, particles and short prepositions, e.g. (cid:28)The Rise and Fall of the Third\\nReich(cid:29), (cid:28)The Merchant of Venice(cid:29), (cid:28)Gone with the Wind(cid:29). The same is true of radio and television\\nprogrammes other than news and current affairs, e.g. (cid:28)American Idol(cid:29) but Meet the Press.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n223\\n\\nfilibuster\\n\\nFilipino\\n\\nfilm titles\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n224\\n\\nThe year used for a company\\'s accounting purposes. It can be a calendar year or it can cover a\\ndifferent period, often starting in April. It can also be referred to as the company\\'s fiscal year.\\n\\nUse firm only for business partnerships. Use company for publicly quoted corporations.\\n\\nLower case in accordance with American style.\\n\\nfirst quarter, first-quarter\\n\\nTwo words for the noun, one word for the adjective. First-quarter results will be released shortly\\nafter the first quarter.\\n\\nfinalise\\n\\nUse complete, finish.\\n\\nfinancial year\\n\\nfirefighter\\n\\nNot fireman.\\n\\nfirm\\n\\nfirst lady\\n\\nfirst slip\\n\\nTwo words for cricket fielding position.\\n\\nFirst World War\\n\\nUse World War One. Not WWI\\n\\nfiscal year\\n\\nThe one-year bookkeeping period or financial year used by a government. It varies from country to\\ncountry. In the United States it is October 1 to September 30 and is named as the year in which it\\nends, so the year ending in September 2005 is fiscal 2005. In Japan the year is April 1 to March 31\\nand is named as the year in which it starts, so the year ending in March 2005 is fiscal 2004. In text\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n224\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n225\\n\\nwrite out, e.g. fiscal 2003/04 but in alerts and headlines 03/04 may be used for space reasons. Do\\nnot shorten to 03/4. The term fiscal year is sometimes used for company accounting periods but it is\\npreferable to say financial or business year.\\n\\nFlack is an American slang term for a public relations person, to be used only if explained. Flak is\\nanti-aircraft fire or heavy criticism.\\n\\nA flair is a talent, a flare is an illuminating device.\\n\\nTo flaunt is to display ostentatiously (not just to display), to flout is to defy, e. g. By flaunting your\\nwealth you flout convention.\\n\\nFlay is to flog or subject to savage criticism. Flail is to strike or swing.\\n\\nNo longer a useful synonym for the British press.\\n\\nWhen scheduled flights come into the news (cid:19) crashes, hijackings, bomb scares. etc. (cid:19) give the\\nflight number together with other identification such as type of aircraft, airline, destination and route.\\n\\nflack, flak\\n\\nflair, flare\\n\\nflaunt, flout\\n\\nflay, flail\\n\\nFleet Street\\n\\nflight numbers\\n\\nflip-flop\\n\\nflounder, founder\\n\\nFlounder is a fish or to struggle violently or stumble helplessly. Founder is to subside, sink or\\ncollapse in ruins.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n225\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n226\\n\\nNot flier, but it American style flier for both aviator and handbill. Some trains and buses use flyer as\\npart of their proper name.\\n\\nflyer\\n\\nflyhalf\\n\\nOne word for rugby position\\n\\nfocus, focused\\n\\nUse sparingly.\\n\\nfollowing\\n\\nfoodstuffs, supplies\\n\\nIn most cases food is enough.\\n\\nfoot\\n\\nfoot-and-mouth disease\\n\\nPrefer after as a preposition, e.g. After the crash... not Following the crash...\\n\\nfollow up, follow-up\\n\\nTwo words for the verb, one word for the noun and adjective.\\n\\nTo convert to metres roughly multiply by 3 and divide by 10. To convert precisely multiply by 0.305.\\n\\nRetain the hyphenation even if foot-and-mouth is used alone without the noun it qualifies. Not\\nhoof-and-mouth.\\n\\nforbear, forebear\\n\\nForbear means to abstain or keep oneself in check, a forebear is an ancestor.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n226\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nforbid, forbidding, forbade\\n\\n227\\n\\nDo not say troops were forced to open fire, or the company was forced to make staff redunant. It\\nimplies a judgment.\\n\\nforced\\n\\nforecast\\n\\nPast tense is forecast not forecasted.\\n\\nforego, forgo\\n\\nForego is to precede, forgo to do without.\\n\\nforehand\\n\\nOne word in tennis.\\n\\nforeign language phrases\\n\\nUse such phrases or quotes only in exceptional cases, for instance where no generally recognised\\nEnglish equivalent exists. They must always be explained, e.g. Dismissing the libel action, the judge\\nsaid, (cid:28)De minimis non curat lex (cid:28) (a Latin phrase meaning (cid:28)The law does not concern itself with\\nvery small matters(cid:25)).\\n\\nforeign exchange rates\\n\\nUse mid-rate in general news stories -- high + low quote divided by 2. See exchange rates\\n\\nOf or used in courts of law. Do not use forensic examination when you mean examination by\\nforensic scientists.\\n\\nforensic\\n\\nforeseeable\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n227\\n\\n\\x0c228\\n\\nA widely used abbreviation for foreign exchange. It can be used in headlines if there are space\\nconstraints. Elsewhere, use the full description. Forex is also a club grouping foreign exchange\\ndealers and each major foreign exchange dealing centre has its own forex club.\\n\\nAvoid these expressions, which force readers to read backwards to understand the meaning.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nforever, not for ever.\\n\\nforex\\n\\nformer, latter\\n\\nformat, formatted\\n\\nformula, formulas, not formulae.\\n\\nFormula One\\n\\nCapitalised in motor sport.\\n\\nforsake, forsaken, forsook\\n\\nforswear\\n\\nFort\\n\\nfortnight\\n\\nPrefer two weeks.\\n\\nfortuitous, fortunate\\n\\nDo not abbreviate in the names of cities or military installations. e.g. Fort Lauderdale.\\n\\nFortuitous means by chance and fortunate means lucky.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n228\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n229\\n\\nFoul is dirty, disfigured or an infraction in sport. Fowl is a bird.\\n\\nforward\\n\\nNot forwards.\\n\\nfoul, fowl\\n\\nfour-wheel drive\\n\\nNot 4x4 unless it is part of a proper name.\\n\\nFourth of July\\n\\nOr July Fourth for the U.S. holiday.\\n\\nfractions\\n\\nWhere mathematical precision is not essential, use a quarter, a third, a half rather than 25, 33, 50\\npercent. In a lead on an opinion poll, for instance, it is better to write Two Germans in three prefer..\\nthan Sixty-nine per cent of Germans prefer.. The precise figure should be given lower in the story.\\nDo not mix decimals and fractions in the same sentence, e.g. do not write 25 per cent of Germans\\nprefer this while two-thirds prefer that... Hyphenate fractions like two-thirds, three-quarters. See also\\nfigures.\\n\\nAcceptable at first reference but put the full title Federal Home Mortgage Corp. later in the story.\\n\\nFrankenstein\\n\\nThe creator, not the monster.\\n\\nFreddie Mac\\n\\nfree kick\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nfrench fries\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n229\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nfresco, frescoes\\n\\n230\\n\\nFrisbee\\n\\n(trade mark)\\n\\nfront line\\n\\nFSA\\n\\nFTC\\n\\nfuchsia\\n\\nfull\\n\\nfulsome\\n\\nTwo words as noun. But front-line positions.\\n\\nFinancial Services Authority, the British regulator for most financial services markets, exchanges\\nand firms.\\n\\nFederal Trade Commission (U.S.)\\n\\nfront-runner, front-running\\n\\nfuel, fuelled, but in American style fuel, fueling, fueled\\n\\nfulfil, fulfilling, fulfilled, but fulfilment\\n\\nHyphenate when used to form compound words, e.g. full-length, full-service.\\n\\nNot fullsome. It is not a synonym for lavish. Fulsome praise is excessive and fawning.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n230\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nfundamentalist\\n\\n231\\n\\nOne who believes in the literal truth of a sacred religious text such as the Bible or the Koran. Now\\nmore commonly used to describe extreme political and religious views. It has disparaging\\novertones, so use with care.\\n\\nfundraiser, fundraising\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nfused participles\\n\\nfurlough, not furlow\\n\\nfuture plans\\n\\nDefuse them. The bank tried to prevent him selling becomes the bank tried to prevent him from\\nselling.\\n\\nTautology. Just plans will do. Excise it from future prospects and future hopes.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n231\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n232\\n\\nG\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 G3\\n2 G5\\n3 G7\\n4 G8\\n5 G10\\n6 G24\\n7 G30\\n8 G77\\n9 GAO\\n10 Gaborone\\n11 gaff, gaffe\\n12 gage, gauge\\n13 gales\\n14 gallon\\n15 Gallup Poll\\n16 Gambia\\n17 gambit\\n18 Gandhi\\n19 gantlet, gauntlet\\n20 gaol\\n21 gas\\n22 gay\\n23 gearing\\n24 GDP\\n25 Geneva Conventions\\n26 gender\\n27 general\\n28 Gentile\\n29 generation -- first/second\\n30 geriatrics\\n31 Germany\\n32 German spellings\\n33 get, got\\n34 ghetto, ghetto.\\n35 GI, GIs\\n36 giant\\n37 gibe, gybe, jibe\\n38 Gibraltar, Strait of\\n39 gilt-edge\\n40 Gipsy\\n41 girl\\n42 Girl Guides\\n43 glamour, glamorous, glamorise\\n44 global\\n45 GMT (cid:19) Greenwich Mean Time\\n46 GNP\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n232\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n233\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 goalkeeper\\n48 gobbledygook\\n49 go-between\\n50 God\\n51 godchild, goddaughter, godfather, godmother,\\ngodparents\\n52 Godthaab\\n53 going public\\n54 golden share\\n55 Golden Week\\n56 good, bad\\n57 goodbye\\n58 goodwill\\n59 gorilla\\n60 gourmand, gourmet\\n61 Gospel\\n62 governance\\n63 Government Accountability Office (U.S.)\\n64 governor-general, governors-general\\n65 graffiti\\n66 gram\\n67 grammar\\n68 granddad, granddaughter\\n69 grand jury\\n70 Grand Prix\\n71 grand slam\\n72 grass court\\n73 Great Britain\\n74 great-\\n75 grey, but gray in American style\\n76 grievous\\n77 grisly, grizzly\\n78 gross domestic product\\n79 ground rules\\n80 gross national product\\n81 grovel, grovelled\\n82 grow\\n83 gruelling\\n84 guerrilla, gorilla\\n85 guest\\n86 Gulf\\n87 gully, not gulley\\n88 gunwale\\n89 Gurkha\\n90 guttural\\n91 Gypsy\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n233\\n\\n\\x0cG3\\n\\nG5\\n\\nG7\\n\\nG8\\n\\nG10\\n\\nG24\\n\\nG30\\n\\nG77\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n234\\n\\nThe world(cid:25)s leading capitalist economies (cid:19) Germany, Japan and the USA.\\n\\nThe five largest capitalist economies: the United States, Japan, Germany, France and the United\\nKingdom.\\n\\nA forum for the world\\'s leading industrial nations to meet and discuss policy. The G7 members are\\nCanada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain and the Unites States. The G7 finance ministers\\nand central bankers meet to discuss the economic outlook, exchange rate policy and financial\\nmarkets.\\n\\nThe G7 countries plus Russia. Russia was invited to join the 1991 G7 summit and its role has been\\ngradually formalised. G8 meetings are limited to heads of state and government, discussing world\\naffairs. Some issues at this level are still regarded as the preserve of the G7.\\n\\nThe G7 leading capitalist countries plus Belgium, The Netherlands and Sweden. Subsequently\\njoined by Switzerland to make 11 but still referred to as the G10. It works within the framework of\\nthe IMF to coordinate fiscal and monetary policies for a stable world economic system.\\n\\nAn informal group of developing countries formed to represent their interests in negotiations on\\ninternational monetary matters. Eight members each from Africa, Asia and Latin America.\\n\\nA private, non-profit group of industry leaders, bankers, central bankers and academics that\\ndiscusses and studies international economic and financial market issues.\\n\\nOriginally established with 77 developing countries, but now considerably expanded, to help\\npromote the views of developing countries on international trade and development within the United\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n234\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n235\\n\\nGovernment Accountability Office (U.S.). Formerly the General Accounting Office .Can be\\nabbreviated to GAO in headlines or at second reference.\\n\\nGaborone\\n\\nNot Gabarone, Botswana.\\n\\ngaff, gaffe\\n\\nGaff is a hook, gaffe is a mistake.\\n\\ngage, gauge\\n\\nNations.\\n\\nGAO\\n\\ngales\\n\\ngallon\\n\\nGallup Poll\\n\\nGambia\\n\\nNot the Gambia, West Africa.\\n\\nA gage is a pledge or to offer as a guarantee. Gauge is a standard or means of measurement.\\n\\nUse gales rather than gale-force winds. A gale is less powerful than a storm in nautical parlance.\\n\\nTo convert Imperial gallons to litres roughly multiply by 9 and divide by 2. To convert precisely\\nmultiply by 4.546.To convert US gallons to litres roughly multiply by 4. To convert precisely multiply\\nby 3.785. To convert Imperial gallons to U.S. gallons roughly multiply by 6 and divide by 5. To\\nconvert precisely multiply by 1.201. To convert U.S. gallons to Imperial gallons roughly multiply by 5\\nand divide by 6. To convert precisely multiply by 0.833.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n235\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n236\\n\\nNot simply an opening move (in chess or metaphorically) but one that involves a sacrifice or\\nconcession. Opening gambit is tautological.\\n\\ngantlet, gauntlet\\n\\nUse gantlet for the military punishment \\' running the gantlet\\', gauntlet for an iron glove.\\n\\ngases, gassing, gassed. The American gasoline, meaning motor fuel, is referred to as petrol in\\nEurope. Do not use gas as a synonym for gasoline; it could cause ambiguity.\\n\\nThe word is now universally used as a synonym for homosexual. Do not use it in other senses.\\n\\nAn indicator of a company\\'s ability to service its debt. Explain if used in financial stories, but best\\navoided. See glossary of financial terms.\\n\\ngambit\\n\\nGandhi\\n\\nNot Ghandi.\\n\\ngaol\\n\\nUse jail.\\n\\ngas\\n\\ngay\\n\\ngearing\\n\\nGDP\\n\\nPlural.\\n\\nSee gross domestic product.\\n\\nGeneva Conventions\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n236\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n237\\n\\nDo not use language that perpetuates sexual, racial, religious or other stereotypes. Such language\\nis offensive, out of date and often simply inaccurate. A person(cid:25)s gender, race, religion, nationality,\\nsexual orientation or marital status should not be cited unless it is relevant to the story. Even then,\\nconsideration must be given to where in the story such information needs to be placed. It is wrong\\nto assume that police, firefighters or soldiers are men. Police is shorter than policemen anyway. Do\\nnot describe a woman(cid:25)s dress or hairstyle where you would not describe a man(cid:25)s. Where possible\\nuse the same term for men and women, e.g. mayor or poet, not mayoress or poetess. Use\\nchairman, chairwoman not chair; spokesman, spokeswoman not spokesperson.\\n\\nHyphenate brigadier-general, lieutenant-general, major-general. At second reference just the\\ngeneral. In the U.S. army a brigadier-general has one star, a major-general two, a\\nlieutenant-general three and a general four. The British army has the rank of brigadier but not of\\nbrigadier-general.\\n\\nAnyone not a Jew, or not a Mormon. Capitalise.\\n\\ngeneration -- first/second\\n\\nTake care when using to qualify to immigrants, since both terms are ambiguous. First-generation\\nimmigrants can mean either people who have immigrated, or the children of immigrants. Similarly,\\nsecond-generation immigrants may be those whose parents immigrated, or whose grandparents did\\nso.\\n\\ngender\\n\\ngeneral\\n\\nGentile\\n\\ngeriatrics\\n\\nGermany\\n\\nMedical care of the elderly. The noun is geriatrics, the adjective geriatric. It does not mean just\\nelderly.\\n\\nThe united Germany, like the former West Germany, is formally called the Federal Republic of\\nGermany. Write East Germany when referring to the former Communist state but eastern or\\nwestern Germany when referring to the eastern and western parts of the unified Germany.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n237\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nGerman spellings\\n\\n238\\n\\nIndicate the presence of an umlaut in German words by adding an e after the inflected vowel, e.g.\\nvon Weizsaecker not von Weizsacker, Fuehrer not Fuhrer\\n\\nThere is always a stronger verb. Find it and use it.\\n\\nA U.S. soldier (from the term government issue). Use only in informal contexts.\\n\\nDo not use when describing companies. In general avoid this adjective.\\n\\nA gibe is a taunt or sneer, to gybe is to swing a sail over or alter course, but in American style a gibe\\nis a taunt or sneer, a jibe is to swing a sail over or alter course, or to be in accord or agree with.\\n\\nghetto, ghetto.\\n\\nget, got\\n\\nGI, GIs\\n\\ngiant\\n\\ngibe, gybe, jibe\\n\\nGibraltar, Strait of\\n\\nNot Straits.\\n\\ngilt-edge\\n\\nGipsy\\n\\nSee Gypsy\\n\\ngirl\\n\\nAny female older than 18 is a woman not a girl. Use woman not lady. A male older than 18 is a\\nman.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n238\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n239\\n\\nGirl Guides\\n\\nNow simply Guides.\\n\\nglobal\\n\\nglamour, glamorous, glamorise\\n\\nBeware of excessive use. Global is correct for the threat of global warming, i.e. something that\\naffects the whole globe. However companies sometimes talk of their global network, an\\nexaggeration unless they are represented in all the business centres on the globe. Try using world\\ninstead.\\n\\nGMT (cid:19) Greenwich Mean Time\\n\\nAs the international standard, it is not spelled out but should be capitalised. Western military forces\\nuse Zulu to mean GMT. It is only necessary to convert a local time into GMT, e.g. 8:30 a. m. (1330\\nGMT) when the Greenwich time is relevant to the rest of the world, such as the moment when an\\nearthquake struck. The conversion should also be given when previewing important events or\\nstatements by major figures, e.g. Smith to hold news conference at 0800 EST (1300 GMT).\\n\\nOne word in sports reporting. Keeper may be used.\\n\\nGNP\\n\\nSee gross national product.\\n\\ngoalkeeper\\n\\ngobbledygook\\n\\ngo-between\\n\\nGod\\n\\nCapitalise when referring to the God of any monotheistic religion. Lower case any pronoun\\nreferences. Lower case gods and goddesses for polytheistic religions.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n239\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n240\\n\\ngodchild, goddaughter, godfather, godmother, godparents\\n\\nLower case, no hyphen. Similarly with godsend and godspeed.\\n\\nThe term for a privately owned company that seeks a listing on a stock exchange and issues shares\\nto the general public. Also known as a flotation or as issuing an IPO.\\n\\nA share that confers sufficient voting rights in a company to maintain control and protect it from\\ntakeover.\\n\\nA series of Japanese national holidays from late April to early May. Starts with Greenery Day on\\nApril 29 and ends with Children(cid:25)s Day on May 5. Avoid calling it holiday-studded. Write in quotes as\\n(cid:28)Golden Week(cid:29) in headlines and at first reference in the text and then without the quotes.\\n\\nFor financial and commodity markets good news and bad news depends on who you are and what\\nyour position is in the market. Avoid them.\\n\\nGodthaab\\n\\nUse Nuuk, Greenland.\\n\\ngoing public\\n\\ngolden share\\n\\nGolden Week\\n\\ngood, bad\\n\\ngoodbye\\n\\nNot good bye or goodby.\\n\\ngoodwill\\n\\nNoun and adjective.\\n\\ngorilla\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n240\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n241\\n\\nGorilla is the animal. Guerrilla, not guerilla, is a member of a small band of independent fighers\\nwhich harasses an army.\\n\\ngourmand, gourmet\\n\\nA gourmand is a glutton, a gourmet an epicure.\\n\\nCapitalise for a specific reference to the books of the New Testament, the Gospels, the Gospel of St\\nLuke. Lower case for gospel music.\\n\\nOther than in the expression corporate governance, meaning the rules governing the conduct of\\ncompanies\\' affairs, this is often used to mean simply government, which is preferable.\\n\\nGovernment Accountability Office (U.S.)\\n\\nFormerly the General Accounting Office .Can be abbreviated to GAO in headlines or at second\\nreference.\\n\\ngovernor-general, governors-general\\n\\nScribbling on a wall. This is a plural noun. The singular is graffito.\\n\\nNot gramme. For kilogram use kg (no full stop, same singular and plural) at all references. Convert\\nto ounces for weights up to 400 grams, to pounds for larger weights. To convert to ounces roughly\\ndivide grams by 30, precisely multiply by 0.035. To convert grams to pounds roughly multiply by two\\nand divide by 900, precisely multiply by 0.0022.\\n\\na, an: Use a before a word that begins with the sound of a consonant, e.g. a gun, a historian, a\\nhotel, a hysterectomy, a NATO member, a one-armed man, a U.N. member. Use an before a word\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n241\\n\\nGospel\\n\\ngovernance\\n\\nNote hyphen\\n\\ngraffiti\\n\\ngram\\n\\ngrammar\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n242\\n\\nthat begins with the sound of a vowel, e.g. an heir, an honour, an OPEC member.\\n\\nadjectives: Use them sparingly. Avoid adjectives that imply a Reuters judgment, e.g. a hard-line\\nspeech, a glowing tribute, a staunch conservative. Some people might consider the speech\\nmoderate, the tribute fulsome or the conservative a die-hard reactionary. When using an adjective\\nand a noun together as an adjective, hyphenate them, e.g. a blue-chip share, high-caste Hindus.\\nWhen using an adjective and the past participle of a verb together adjectivally, hyphenate them, e.g.\\nold-fashioned morality, rose-tinted spectacles. Do not hyphenate an adverb and adjective when they\\nstand alone, e.g. The artist was well known. If the adverb and adjective are paired to form a new\\nadjective, they are hyphenated, e.g. a well-known artist. Do not do this if the adverb ends in -ly, e.g.\\na poorly planned operation.\\n\\nadverbs: Put the adverb between the auxiliary verb and the past participle, e.g. France has already\\nrefused... not France already has refused ...as, like: as compares verbs, like compares nouns. He\\nfought as a hero should. But: He acted like a hero.\\n\\ncollective nouns: Most collective nouns and names of countries, governments, organisations and\\ncompanies are followed by singular verbs and singular neuter pronouns, e.g. The government,\\nwhich is studying the problem, said it... not The government, who are studying the problem, said\\nthey.. Exceptions are the police (police are), the couple (the couple are), and sports stories, teams\\ntake plural verbs and pronouns.\\n\\nneither: Used on its own it always takes a singular verb. Neither is available.\\n\\nneither ... nor: Can govern only two elements e.g. Neither Norway nor Sweden voted. Do not write\\nNeither Norway, Sweden nor Denmark voted. If both elements are singular use a singular verb, e.g.\\nNeither France nor Germany welcomes the prospect. If one element is singular and one plural then\\nthe verb agrees with the noun nearest to it. e.g. Neither the players nor the referee is fit. Neither Joe\\nnor his parents were able to come. Always use neither ... nor& Do not use neither&or. Always use\\nnot ... or. Do not use not&nor.\\n\\nparticiples: There are cases in which an unattached participle is acceptable, e.g. Considering the\\nrisks involved, you were right to cancel the trip. Although it is not you who is considering the risks\\nbut the writer of the sentence, the sense is clear. But avoid the unattached participle when it makes\\nthe sentence absurd, e.g.: Having disarmed, Ruritania(cid:25)s allies guaranteed its defence. Here the\\nparticiple having disarmed is wrongly attached to the allies when in fact it is Ruritania that has\\ndisarmed. Fetching anything between $16,000 and $40,000, only about 2,500 women around the\\nworld can afford to buy haute couture dresses. The juxtaposition of fetching and women suggests it\\nis the women not the dresses who are worth $16,000.\\n\\nsplit infinitive: Avoid splitting infinitives unless the alternative is an unnatural word order. The\\npresident vowed to ruthlessly crush all armed opposition reads better than ruthlessly to crush or to\\ncrush ruthlessly.\\n\\nthat, which: Use that in defining clauses, e.g. the cup that cheers. Reserve which for informative\\nclauses, e.g. the cup, which was blue, was full of water. Avoid the unnecessary use of that as in He\\nsaid that he was going to ...\\n\\nwho, whom: who is the subject, whom the object of a verb. As a rough guide as to which word to\\nuse, substitute he or him for the who or whom and see which makes sense. But we should follow\\ncommon usage and be ready to use who as the object where this sounds and looks more natural,\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n242\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n243\\n\\ne.g. Who she met at the midnight rendezvous was not yet known.\\n\\ngranddad, granddaughter\\n\\nSimilarly grandmother, grandfather, grandson.\\n\\nIn the U.S. judicial system a grand jury\\'s main function is to review evidence presented by a\\nprosecutor and determine whether there is probable cause to return an indictment. Under the\\nconstitution, a grand jury indictment is required for federal criminal charges. Only about half of the\\nstates\\' judicial systems use grand juries. See U.S. courts\\n\\nCapitalise in the title of a race or event, e.g. Monaco Grand Prix, but lower case generally, e.g.\\nMichael Schumacher won his first grand prix. The plural is grands prix.\\n\\nLower case in description of tennis tournaments.\\n\\nTwo words as an adjective plus noun, e.g. Wimbledon(cid:25)s grass courts are famous, but one word as\\nan adjective, grasscourt tournament.\\n\\nComprises England, Scotland and Wales. The United Kingdom comprises Great Britain and\\nNorthern Ireland. In sports reporting use Britain. See United Kingdom\\n\\ngrand jury\\n\\nGrand Prix\\n\\ngrand slam\\n\\ngrass court\\n\\nGreat Britain\\n\\ngreat-\\n\\nHyphenate great-grandfather, great-grandmother, great-great-grandson etc.\\n\\ngrey, but gray in American style\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n243\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n244\\n\\ngrievous\\n\\ngrisly, grizzly\\n\\ngrisly means ghastly, grizzly means grey-haired. A grizzly is also a kind of North American bear.\\n\\ngross domestic product\\n\\nMay be expressed as GDP in a headline and at first reference, but copy should spell out the full\\nexplanantion at second reference. It is the total monetary value of all goods and services produced\\nwithin a country. GDP does not include income from overseas investments and earnings or from\\nremittances from nationals working abroad. Use in preference to GNP. Usually referred to in the\\ncontext of GDP growth in percent. Often just called economic growth, but this term needs to be\\nspelled out. GDP per capita may be used to compare countries.\\n\\nground rules\\n\\nRules that apply in particular circumstances, not general or basic rules.\\n\\ngross national product\\n\\nThe total value of goods and services produced by an economy, including income from overseas\\ninvestments and remittances from nationals working abroad.\\n\\nFarmers grow crops. Companies do not grow revenues.\\n\\ngrovel, grovelled\\n\\ngrow\\n\\ngruelling\\n\\nA cliche best avoided.\\n\\nguerrilla, gorilla\\n\\nGuerrilla, not guerilla, is a member of a small band of independent fighters which harasses an army.\\nGorilla is the animal.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n244\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n245\\n\\nUse for the Middle East Gulf. Do not use Arabian or Persian Gulf. Write the Gulf of Mexico in full at\\nfirst reference.\\n\\nDo not use as a verb.\\n\\nguest\\n\\nGulf\\n\\ngully, not gulley\\n\\nCricket fielding position.\\n\\ngunwale\\n\\nGurkha\\n\\nguttural\\n\\nGypsy\\n\\nDo not use when referring to the Roma people. See Roma. Do not capitalise when used generically\\nto describe someone who is constantly on the move, e.g. She led the life of a gypsy.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n245\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n246\\n\\nH\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Haarlem, Harlem\\n2 habeas corpus\\n3 Habsburg\\n4 Haiti\\n5 hale, hail\\n6 half\\n7 half-mast\\n8 haj\\n9 haji\\n10 halftime\\n11 hallelujah\\n12 Halley\\'s comet\\n13 halo, halos\\n14 hands off\\n15 Hamas\\n16 Hamilton\\n17 hang\\n18 hangar, hanger\\n19 hara-kiri\\n20 harass, harassment\\n21 hard court\\n22 hard fought\\n23 hardline, hardliner\\n24 hat-trick\\n25 H-bomb\\n26 head of state\\n27 headroom\\n28 healthcare\\n29 hedge fund\\n30 heavenly bodies\\n31 hectare\\n32 heights\\n33 hemorrhage\\n34 hemorrhoid\\n35 here\\n36 heroin\\n37 hertz\\n38 Hezbollah\\n39 hiccup\\n40 HICP\\n41 hi-fi\\n42 high-tech\\n43 high commission\\n44 hike\\n45 hint\\n46 hippie\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n246\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n247\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 Hispanic\\n48 Hispanic names\\n49 Hispaniola\\n50 historic, historical\\n51 hit by\\n52 hitchhike, hitchhiker\\n53 Hitler\\n54 HIV\\n55 Hizbollah\\n56 hoard, horde\\n57 hoary\\n58 Hobson\\'s choice\\n59 hoi polloi\\n60 Holland\\n61 holocaust\\n62 Holy Places\\n63 homemade\\n64 homemaker\\n65 homeopathy\\n66 home schooling\\n67 hometown\\n68 honorifics\\n69 hoof-and-mouth\\n70 hopefully\\n71 horde, hoard\\n72 hospitalise, hospitalisation\\n73 host\\n74 hostile bid\\n75 hot spot\\n76 House of Commons, the\\nCommons\\n77 House of Representatives\\n78 housing unit\\n79 human being\\n80 humorist\\n81 hundredweight\\n82 hung\\n83 hurricanes\\n84 hyphenation\\n85 hydro\\n86 hyperthermia\\n87 hypothermia\\n\\nHaarlem, Harlem\\n\\nHaarlem is in the Netherlands, HarIem in New York City.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n247\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nhabeas corpus\\n\\n248\\n\\nA writ to produce a prisoner before a court, usually used to establish whether the person\\'s detention\\nis legal . When used in stories, define its meaning.\\n\\nHabsburg\\n\\nHaiti\\n\\nhale, hail\\n\\nhalf-mast\\n\\nhalf\\n\\nhaj\\n\\nhaji\\n\\nhalftime\\n\\nOne word\\n\\nNot an island. It shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic.\\n\\nHale is free from disease, or to pull or haul by force. Hail is to salute or call out, or an ice shower.\\nHail a cab. A person is hale and hearty.\\n\\nNote the following: halfhearted, halftrack; half brother, half size; half-baked, half-cocked, half-hour,\\nhalf-life, half-moon, half-truth.\\n\\nHyphenate. Strict military protocol distinguishes between half-mast for ships and naval stations and\\nhalf-staff for other uses on land.\\n\\nNot hadj or hajj. The Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca.\\n\\nSomeone who has performed the haj.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n248\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nhallelujah\\n\\n249\\n\\nHalley\\'s comet\\n\\nLower case "c"\\n\\nhalo, halos\\n\\nhands off\\n\\nHamas\\n\\nHamilton\\n\\nhang\\n\\nHyphenate when a compound modifier. She adopted a hands-off policy and kept her hands off\\ndecisions.\\n\\nRefer to it as the Islamist Hamas movement. Suggest we include following in most stories on\\nHamas: Its leaders have offered a long-term truce with Israel in return for a viable Palestinian state\\nin the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip. The Islamist group continues to say it will not\\nformally recognise Israel and its 1988 founding charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish state.\\n\\nUse the form HAMILTON, Bermuda as a dateline for the Bermudan capital.\\n\\nA person is hanged, a picture is hung.\\n\\nhangar, hanger\\n\\nhangar is a shelter for aircraft, a hanger for clothes\\n\\nhara-kiri\\n\\nJapanese ritual suicide. Not hari-kari.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n249\\n\\n\\x0c250\\n\\nThe hard courts were designed for big servers, but one word as an adjective, e.g. hardcourt\\ntournament.\\n\\nAvoid this cliche in sports reporting. Most competitive matches are hard fought and it is a story if\\nthey are not.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nharass, harassment\\n\\nNot harrass. But embarrass.\\n\\nhard court\\n\\nhard fought\\n\\nhardline, hardliner\\n\\nSpell as one word, without hyphen.\\n\\nhat-trick\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nH-bomb\\n\\nheadroom\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nhealthcare\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nUse hydrogen bomb in text unless directly quoting someone. May be used in headlines.\\n\\nhead of state\\n\\nBe careful, it is not always the prime minister.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n250\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nhedge fund\\n\\n251\\n\\nA private investment fund in which institutions and individuals may invest. It typically aims to\\nproduce high returns from rapid, short-term market movements, often by taking very leveraged\\npositions and using aggressive strategies such as short selling, swaps, derivatives, program trading\\nand arbitrage.\\n\\nheavenly bodies\\n\\nCapitalise the names of planets, stars and constellations.\\n\\nTo convert to acres roughly multiply by five and divide by two, precisely multiply by 2.471.\\n\\nConvert the heights of mountains, buildings, etc. from metres to feet, not yards.\\n\\nAvoid using here as a device to locate a story. It can lead to confusion, ambiguity and sometimes\\nerror. It is often not necessary to give a locator in a lead paragraph. For instance, in a\\nBudapest-datelined story on a meeting between the Hungarian and French presidents one would\\nassume that they met in the capital unless the story explicitly said otherwise. In that case the\\nreference to the talks being in Budapest could come in the second or third paragraph.\\n\\nA unit of frequency of one cycle per second. It usually requires explanation. e.g. 16,000 hertz\\n(cycles per second).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n251\\n\\nhectare\\n\\nheights\\n\\nhemorrhage\\n\\nPrefer bleeding.\\n\\nhemorrhoid\\n\\nhere\\n\\nheroin\\n\\nhertz\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nHezbollah\\n\\n252\\n\\nA Shi(cid:25)ite Islamist group in Lebanon that is backed by Syria and Iran. It is a political party with a\\nformidable guerrilla army.\\n\\nHarmonised index of consumer prices, a measure of inflation calculated under common rules by all\\nEU member states. In Britain, the HICP is known as the CPI, but the two are the same index.\\n\\nNot hi-tech. Use as adjective only. As a noun write high-technology.\\n\\nhigh commission\\n\\nLower case except when specific: British High Commission.\\n\\nUse rise or increase when referring to pay, prices, etc. "Hike" is jargon.\\n\\nDo not use this inadequate word because it risks making a value judgment. Who said what and\\nwhere and when?\\n\\nNot hippy. A rebel against conventional standards and values.\\n\\nAs a noun or adjective refers to those whose ethnic origin is in a Spanish-speaking country. Be\\nmore specific where possible, such as Colombian or Mexican. Note that people from\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n252\\n\\nhiccup\\n\\nHICP\\n\\nhi-fi\\n\\nhigh-tech\\n\\nhike\\n\\nhint\\n\\nhippie\\n\\nHispanic\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n253\\n\\nPortuguese-speaking countries are not Hispanic. See race\\n\\nHispanic names\\n\\nPeople in Spanish-speaking countries usually include in their full names the family name of their\\nfather followed by that of their mother, sometimes linked by y (and), e.g. Ferdinand Maradona\\nLopez, Pedro Ardiles y Portillo.\\n\\nGive the full name at first reference, but only the father(cid:25)s family name (Maradona, Ardiles) at\\nsecond reference, unless the person is normally known by the combination of two names.\\nPortuguese, Spanish and Brazilian soccer players may be known by several names, one name, or a\\nnickname. Follow commonly accepted usage e.g. Pele, Joao Pinto, Edu.\\n\\nA Caribbean island shared by Haiti and the Dominican Republic.\\n\\nHispaniola\\n\\nhistoric, historical\\n\\nA historic event is a major and dramatic one, a historical event is one which, even if in itself quite\\nminor, is part of history. Historic is nearly always the word needed in Reuters copy but use it with\\ncare to avoid writing a clich\'c3\'a9.\\n\\nDo not use when you mean affected by.\\n\\nhitchhike, hitchhiker\\n\\nhit by\\n\\nHitler\\n\\nHIV\\n\\nFirst name was Adolf not Adolph. His title was Fuehrer (leader) not Fuhrer.\\n\\nAcquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The\\nterm AIDS applies to the most advanced stages of HIV infection. The initials AIDS and HIV may be\\nused at first reference with the full name given lower in the story. Do not write HIV virus.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n253\\n\\n\\x0c254\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nHizbollah\\n\\nDo not use. See Hezbollah\\n\\nhoard, horde\\n\\nhoary\\n\\nA hoard is a hidden stock or treasure, a horde a multitude.\\n\\nNot hoarey, for something ancient or white with age.\\n\\nHobson\\'s choice\\n\\nNot the lesser of two evils, but no choice at all.\\n\\nNot the hoi polloi. Prefer the masses, or the common people.\\n\\nhoi polloi\\n\\nHolland\\n\\nholocaust\\n\\nHoly Places\\n\\nUse the Netherlands except in datelines, where it is just Netherlands, e.g. ARNHEM, Netherlands,\\nMay 16 &\\n\\nWholesale slaughter or destruction by fire. Capitalise when referring to the Nazi massacre of\\nEuropean Jewry.\\n\\nThe Holy Places of Islam are Mecca, Medina and Jerusalem, in that order. In Mecca the great\\nmosque containing the Kaaba is venerated especially in the annual haj, or pilgrimage. In Medina it\\nis the Prophet Mohammad(cid:25)s mosque where the founder of the Islamic religion is buried.\\nNon-believers are not allowed to enter Mecca or Medina. In Jerusalem it is al-Haram al-Sharif,\\nwhich Jews call the Temple Mount.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n254\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n255\\n\\nhomemade\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nhomemaker\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nhomeopathy\\n\\nNot homoeopathy.\\n\\nhome schooling\\n\\nhometown\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\n===homosexual===\\n\\nhonorifics\\n\\nhoof-and-mouth\\n\\nUse foot-and-mouth.\\n\\nhopefully\\n\\nhorde, hoard\\n\\nTwo words, but hypehnate home-schooled and home-schooler.\\n\\nThe word applies to both men and women, not just to men. Therefore do not write homosexuals and\\nlesbians, although you can refer to homosexual men and women.\\n\\nSee courtesy titles, nobility, religious titles, royalty.\\n\\nExcept in quotation do not use to mean it is hoped that &\\n\\nA horde is a multitude, a hoard is a hidden stock or treasure.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n255\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nhospitalise, hospitalisation\\n\\n256\\n\\nDo not use. Prefer taken to hospital or treated in hospital. On most occasions drop the reference\\nbecause seriously ill or injured people are usually treated in hospital.\\n\\nhost\\n\\nAcceptable as a verb.\\n\\nhostile bid\\n\\nhot spot\\n\\nA bid for a company that is not supported by its senior management.\\n\\nTwo words: an area that has wireless computer connectivity, a global trouble spot or a point of\\nintense heat in a fire.\\n\\nHouse of Commons, the Commons\\n\\nHouse of Representatives\\n\\nCapitalise when referring to a specific body e.g. the U.S. House of Representatives.\\n\\nhousing unit\\n\\nJargon. Use home or household.\\n\\nhuman being\\n\\nJust human will do.\\n\\nhumorist\\n\\nhundredweight\\n\\nUK/U.S. long = 112 pounds/50.8 kg. U.S. short = 100 pounds/45.4 kg.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n256\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n257\\n\\nA person is hanged, a picture is hung.\\n\\nhung\\n\\nhurricanes\\n\\nThe most severe of all storms is a cyclone, in which winds blow spirally inwards towards a centre of\\nlow barometric pressure. In the Caribbean and on the East Coast of the United States such a storm\\nis called a hurricane. In many countries meteorological offices give tropical storms the names of\\nmen and women in alphabetical sequence. Capitalise names once a hurricane has been so\\ndesignated: Hurricane Katrina. Use it, not he or she, as the pronoun.\\n\\nhyphenation\\n\\nUse a hyphen if its omission might lead to ambiguity, e.g. three year-old horses is quite different\\nfrom three-year-old horses. Use caution in headlines: False jailing claim delayed. What was meant\\nwas False-jailing claim delayed.\\n\\nHyphens tend to erode with time and many words once hyphenated are now generally written\\nunhyphenated e.g. ceasefire, cooperation, gunrunner, machinegun.\\n\\nUse a hyphen to show that two or more words are to be read together as a single word with its own\\nmeaning, different from that of the individual words, e.g. extra-judicial duties (duties other than\\njudicial ones) as opposed to extra judicial duties (additional judicial duties).\\n\\nDo not hyphenate an adjective and a noun when they stand alone, e.g. the left wing of the party. If\\nthe adjective and noun are paired to form a new adjective, they are hyphenated, e.g. a first-class\\nresult, the left-wing party. Hyphenate numbers and nouns or adjectives when they are paired to\\nform a new adjective, e.g. a six-cylinder car, a one-armed man. Do not hyphenate adjectives used\\nto form comparatives or superlatives, e.g. the most desirable outcome, the least likely result, the\\nmore obvious solution.\\n\\nDo not hyphenate an adverb and adjective when they stand alone, e.g. The artist was well known. If\\nthe adverb and adjective are paired to form a new adjective, they are hyphenated, e.g. a well-known\\nartist. Do not do so however if the adverb ends in -ly, e.g. a poorly planned operation.\\n\\nHyphenate two adjectives or an adjective and a present or past participle when they are paired to\\nform a new adjective, e.g. a dark-blue dress, a good-looking man, a well-tailored suit.\\n\\nDo not hyphenate very with an adjective. He is a very good man.\\n\\nIf the second element in a word is capitalised, hyphenate. Transatlantic is an exception.\\n\\nIf pre- or re- is followed by an element beginning with e, hyphenate e.g. pre-empt, re-employ.\\n\\nIf the first element of a word is the negative non-, hyphenate, e.g. a non-aggression pact (but\\nnonconformist).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n257\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n258\\n\\nWhere two nouns are paired to form another noun, hyphenate if their original distinct meanings are\\nstill clearly retained, e.g. actor-manager. Otherwise do not hyphenate, e.g. housekeeper.\\n\\nWhere a verb and adverb are paired to form a noun, hyphenate if the verb ends and the adverb\\nbegins with a vowel, e.g. cave-in, flare-up.\\n\\nHyphenate titles when the first word is a preposition, e.g. under-secretary, vice-admiral, or when a\\nnoun is followed by an adjective, e.g. attorney-general. (However official U.S. titles are not\\nhyphenated, e.g. the US. Attorney General.) Do not hyphenate when the noun follows the adjective,\\ne.g. second lieutenant.\\n\\nHyphenate fractions, e.g. three-quarter, two-thirds.\\n\\nHyphenate secondary compass points, e.g. south-southwest but not main ones e.g. southwest.\\n\\nHyphenate compound words when not to do so would result in an ugly sound or confusion of\\nmeaning, e.g. cross-section, sea-eagle.\\n\\nHyphenate both terms in phrases such as short- and medium-range missiles. If a figure being\\nconverted is hyphenated make sure that the figure in the conversion is also, e.g. within a 10-mile\\n(six-km) radius.\\n\\nhydro\\n\\nIn general, no hyphen e.g. hydroelectric.\\n\\nhyperthermia\\n\\nToo hot. Think of \\'(cid:19)er\\' as in very.\\n\\nhypothermia\\n\\nToo cold. Think that o rhymes with low.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n258\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n259\\n\\nI\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 IAEA\\n2 IATA\\n3 ibn\\n4 ICAO\\n5 ice age\\n6 ICBM\\n7 ICO\\n8 icon\\n9 ICRC\\n10 ld al-Adha, ld al-Fitr\\n11 idiosyncrasy,\\nidiosyncrasies\\n12 IFC\\n13 ill\\n14 illegal immigrant\\n15 IISS\\n16 illicit\\n17 illiquid\\n18 illusion\\n19 ILO\\n20 imam\\n21 IMCO\\n22 IMF\\n23 immigrate\\n24 IMO\\n25 impacted by\\n26 impassable\\n27 impassible/impassive\\n28 impeachment\\n29 imply, infer\\n30 important\\n31 imports from abroad\\n32 impostor\\n33 impresario\\n34 impress\\n35 in addition to\\n36 in, into\\n37 inadmissible\\n38 inasmuch as\\n39 in connection with\\n40 insofar as\\n41 in the past\\n42 inch\\n43 include, comprise\\n44 incredible, incredulous\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n259\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n260\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n45 incur, incurring,\\nincurred\\n46 Index, indexes\\n47 Indians (U.S.)\\n48 indicated\\n49 indict\\n50 indirect speech\\n51 indiscriminate,\\nindiscriminately\\n52 indispensable\\n53 Indochina\\n54 Indonesian names\\n55 indoor, indoors\\n56 industrial action\\n57 in fact\\n58 infant\\n59 infer\\n60 inflation\\n61 inimitable\\n62 injuries, wounds\\n63 innocent\\n64 innocuous\\n65 inoculate\\n66 in order to\\n67 inquire, inquiry\\n68 inpatient\\n69 insignia\\n70 insolvency\\n71 install\\n72 instil, instilled\\n73 instinctive, instinctual\\n74 in spite of\\n75 insure\\n76 international\\ncommunity\\n77 International Court of\\nJustice\\n78 International Criminal\\nCourt\\n79 international date line\\n80 internecine\\n81 Internet\\n82 Interpol\\n83 interpretative\\n84 interval\\n85 Intifada\\n86 into\\n87 intranet\\n88 Inuit\\n89 invariably\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n260\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n261\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n90 inveigh, inveigle\\n91 invoke, evoke\\n92 IOC\\n93 IOM\\n94 IRA\\n95 irascible\\n96 Ireland\\n97 Irian Jaya\\n98 ironically\\n99 irregardless\\n100 irreparable\\n101 -isation, -zation\\n102 **-ization, -isation\\n103 -ise, -ize\\n104 Islam\\n105 Islamic\\n106 Islamist\\n107 Islamisation\\n108 Israeli names\\n109 it\\n110 its, it(cid:25)s\\n\\nInternational Atomic Energy Agency (Vienna). The U.N. nuclear watchdog. See www.iaea.org\\n\\nIAEA\\n\\nIATA\\n\\nibn\\n\\nICAO\\n\\nice age\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nInternational Air Transport Association (Geneva). See www.iata.org\\n\\nUse bin in Arab names to mean son of.\\n\\nInternational Civil Aviation Organisation (Montreal). See www.icao.int\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n261\\n\\n\\x0cICBM\\n\\nICO\\n\\nicon\\n\\nICRC\\n\\nIFC\\n\\nill\\n\\nIISS\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n262\\n\\nIntercontinental ballistic missile with a range of about 3,500 miles.\\n\\nOrganisation of the Islamic Conference. Use OIC. See www.oic-cio.org\\n\\nBest used only to describe a religious image.\\n\\nInternational Committee of the Red Cross (Geneva). See Red Cross and www.icrc.org\\n\\nld al-Adha, ld al-Fitr\\n\\nSee Eid al-Adha, Eid al-Fitr\\n\\nidiosyncrasy, idiosyncrasies\\n\\nInternational Finance Corporation, private sector financing arm of the World Bank, based in\\nWashington. See www.ifc.org\\n\\nHyphenate in compounds e.g. ill-mannered, ill-tempered.\\n\\nillegal immigrant\\n\\nNot illegal alien.\\n\\nInternational Institute for Strategic Studies (London).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n262\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n263\\n\\nElicit is to draw forth or to evoke. Illicit is not permitted or illegal. A dalliance may elicit an illicit\\nrelationship.\\n\\nMarkets or instruments are described as being illiquid, or lacking depth, if there is a shortage of\\nbuyers or sellers. This shortage makes is difficult to find a true price for an illiquid security. The\\nopposite of liquid.\\n\\nAllusion is a reference in passing. Illusion is a false impression or a delusion.\\n\\nInternational Labour Organization (Geneva). See www.ilo.org\\n\\nLower case when describing the official who leads devotions in a mosque. Upper case when part of\\nan official title.\\n\\nInter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation (London), succeeded by the International\\nMaritime Organization (IMO). See below.\\n\\nInternational Monetary Fund (Washington). A specialised agency of the U.N. which has a brief to\\noversee the international monetary system. The IMF provides funds to member countries with\\nbalance of payments problems, to support policies of adjustment and reform. Its main units are the\\npolicy-making International Monetary and Financial Committee and the jopint IMF-World Bank\\nDevelopment Committee that usually meet twice a year. Its funds come from subscriptions from\\nmember states. See www.imf.org\\n\\nillicit\\n\\nilliquid\\n\\nillusion\\n\\nILO\\n\\nimam\\n\\nIMCO\\n\\nIMF\\n\\nimmigrate\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n263\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n264\\n\\nThe International Maritime Organization, the U.N. specialised agency responsible for improving\\nmaritime safety, preventing pollution from ships and promoting technical co-operation. See\\nwww.imo.org\\n\\nUgly and imprecise. Use affected by, or better helped by or hurt by. Similarly, avoid impacted on\\nand replace with affected, helped, hurt etc.\\n\\nMeaning passage is impossible. Not impassible.\\n\\nimpassible/impassive\\n\\nBoth mean insensitive to pain or suffering. Do not confuse with "impassable" (see above).\\n\\nIn the United States, the process of bringing an official before a court or tribunal on charges of\\nwrongdoing, in an attempt to remove him or her from office. Not the same as being convicted or\\nremoved from office.\\n\\nA speaker or writer implies by insinuating or suggesting indirectly. A listener or reader infers by\\ndrawing a conclusion from what is said.\\n\\nIMO\\n\\nimpacted by\\n\\nimpassable\\n\\nimpeachment\\n\\nimply, infer\\n\\nimportant\\n\\nSpecify to whom.\\n\\nimports from abroad\\n\\nA tautology. Just imports will do.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n264\\n\\n\\x0cimpostor\\n\\nimpresario\\n\\nimpress\\n\\nin addition to\\n\\nin, into\\n\\ninadmissible\\n\\ninasmuch as\\n\\nin connection with\\n\\ninsofar as\\n\\nin the past\\n\\ninch\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n265\\n\\nA transitive verb that requires an object. Jim Smith impressed selectors, not Smith impressed during\\nhis two-hour innings. The passive, was impressive /unimpressive, is permissible but weaker and\\nless informative.\\n\\nJust \\'and\\' will often suffice, or as well as or besides. Similarly, in order to can become \\'to\\'.\\n\\nIn shows place, into shows movement. He was in the square when the soldiers marched into the\\ntown. Into is one word, on to is two.\\n\\nClumsy and inexact. Did something happen because of something else?\\n\\nOften redundant when used with the past tense. An exception might be a reference to the very\\ndistant past.\\n\\nTo convert to centimetres roughly multiply by 5 and divide by 2, precisely multiply by 2.54.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n265\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ninclude, comprise\\n\\n266\\n\\nUse include only when listing some component parts of a whole: The European Union includes\\nBelgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. If listing all the components use comprise: Benelux\\ncomprises Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg.\\n\\nincredible, incredulous\\n\\nIncredible is unbelievable, incredulous is sceptical.\\n\\nincur, incurring, incurred\\n\\nIndex, indexes\\n\\nUse indexes as the plural.\\n\\nIndians (U.S.)\\n\\nNative American (capitalised) is preferred, bearing in mind that this includes e.g. Inuit who are not\\nIndians. American Indian is acceptable. Where possible, be more specific and give the name of the\\ntribe (eg. Navajo, Cherokee). See race\\n\\nBest avoided because it implies subjective interpretation by the correspondent.\\n\\nAvoid the suggestion that somebody is being judged without trial. Indicted on a charge of robbing,\\nnot indicted for robbing.\\n\\nindicated\\n\\nindict\\n\\nindirect speech\\n\\nDo not retain the present indicative in indirect or reported speech. Change is to was; are to were;\\nwill and shall to would; has and have to had. Thus it is: He said it was ... not he said it is ... There is\\nan exception in the case of lead paragraphs with the source at the end instead of the beginning of\\nthe sentence, where to avoid the present indicative would lead to lack of clarity or smack of\\npedantry. For example, it is acceptable to write in a lead paragraph: Giant Oil Corp will order three\\nsupertankers from the Pusan shipyard in Korea next month, the company said. If the source were at\\nthe beginning, we would write: Giant Oil Corp said it would order three supertankers from the Pusan\\nshipyard ... It is usually unnecessary to follow said with that.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n266\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nindiscriminate, indiscriminately\\n\\n267\\n\\nIndoor is the adjective, indoors is the adverb. He stayed indoors to let off the indoor firework.\\n\\nAvoid this euphemism. If you mean a strike, say so. If you do not mean a strike, then be specific.\\n\\nindispensable\\n\\nIndochina\\n\\nNo longer used. Now Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam.\\n\\nIndonesian names\\n\\nOften Indonesians only have one name e.g. Suharto.\\n\\nindoor, indoors\\n\\nindustrial action\\n\\nCan almost always be excised.\\n\\nChild up to 12 months old.\\n\\nin fact\\n\\ninfant\\n\\ninfer\\n\\ninflation\\n\\nA speaker or writer implies by insinuating or suggesting indirectly. A listener or reader infers by\\ndrawing a conclusion from what is said.\\n\\nA persistent rise in the prices of goods and services, caused by too much money chasing too few\\ngoods. Inflation can be caused by an increase in money supply or demand as a result of\\ngovernment spending or the printing of money, or by a contraction in the supply of goods.\\nDemand-pull inflation is caused by excess demand in the economy, while cost-push inflation is\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n267\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n268\\n\\ncaused by increased costs of production. The rate of inflation is often a primary policy target of\\ngovernments, and of central banks given policy independence to achieve a target rate.\\n\\nWounds are suffered in combat or are inflicted by weapons or war, injuries by accident or criminal\\nattack. Be as specific as possible, e.g. His right leg was broken not His leg was broken. Write His\\nleft arm was broken not He suffered an arm fracture. Use suffered rather than sustained or\\nreceived. Avoid hospitalise as a verb.\\n\\nReport a plea or a verdict as it was made in court. If it was not guilty, do not report it as innocent.\\n\\ninimitable\\n\\ninjuries, wounds\\n\\ninnocent\\n\\ninnocuous\\n\\ninoculate\\n\\nin order to\\n\\ninquire, inquiry\\n\\ninpatient\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\ninsignia\\n\\nNot enquire, enquiry.\\n\\nAs a prepositional phrase, just \\'to\\' will do.\\n\\nStrictly a plural noun but can be treated as singular as well. Each of the guilds had an insignia.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n268\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n269\\n\\ninsolvency\\n\\nSee bankruptcy.\\n\\ninstall\\n\\nNot instal. Installation but instalment.\\n\\ninstil, instilled\\n\\nInstillation but instilment.\\n\\ninstinctive, instinctual\\n\\nin spite of\\n\\nUse despite.\\n\\ninsure\\n\\nInstinctive is prompted by instinct, instinctual is belonging to or related to instincts.\\n\\nInsure means to guarantee against loss, ensure to make sure.\\n\\ninternational community\\n\\nAvoid unless it clearly refers to the body of global diplomatic opinion. Be specific, as in the United\\nStates and its allies, or Muslim countries\\n\\nInternational Court of Justice\\n\\nThis is the proper title of the World Court in The Hague, which is the main U. N. judicial body. Use\\nthe term World Court at second reference. The Court has a dual role: to settle international legal\\ndisputes submitted to it by states, and to give advisory opinions on legal questions referred to it by\\ninternational agencies.\\n\\nInternational Criminal Court\\n\\nThe court set up in The Hague under the auspices of the United Nations to try crimes such as\\ngenocide.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n269\\n\\n\\x0cInternet\\n\\nInterpol\\n\\ninterpretative\\n\\ninterval\\n\\nIntifada\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ninternational date line\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\ninternecine\\n\\n270\\n\\nInternecine means deadly or murderous as well as conflict within a group. Internecine warfare is\\ntautologous.\\n\\nCapitalise as a noun meaning the World Wide Web, lower case as an adjective e.g. internet\\nbanking, internet cafe.\\n\\nThe International Criminal Police Organisation (Lyon. France). Interpol can be used at all\\nreferences.\\n\\nAn interval is the time between two events. Do not use it to mean simply elapsed time. He studied\\nfor an interval of three years is wrong. \\'An interval of\\' can be excised. There was an interval of a\\nyear between his two degrees is right.\\n\\nArabic for (cid:28)uprising(cid:29). It is used to describe two Palestinian uprisings against Israeli occupation. The\\nfirst began in December 1987 and ran roughly until September 1993 when leaders signed an interim\\naccord under which Israel handed over parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip to Palestinian\\nself-rule. A second Intifada began in September 2000. Capitalise.\\n\\ninto\\n\\none word. On to, two words.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n270\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n271\\n\\nintranet\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nInuit\\n\\ninvariably\\n\\ninveigh, inveigle\\n\\ninvoke, evoke\\n\\nIOC\\n\\nIOM\\n\\nIRA\\n\\nirascible\\n\\nNot irrascible.\\n\\nThe name used by the people of northern Canada to describe themselves. There are about 56,000\\nInuit who live in an area from Labrador to Alaska. The singular is Inuk, the language is Inuktitut.\\n\\nMeans fixed and without exception, not usual or frequent or commonly. Invariably the children catch\\ncolds is wrong. Invariably spring follows winter.\\n\\nInveigh is to revile or to attack with words. Inveigle is to entice, cajole or wheedle.\\n\\nInvoke means to call upon solemnly, evoke to bring to mind, e.g. In a speech evoking memories of\\nthe civil war he invoked God(cid:25)s help in preventing fresh bloodshed.\\n\\nInternational Olympic Committee (Lausanne). See www.ioc.org\\n\\nInternational Organization for Migration (Geneva). This is a non-U.N. intergovernmental agency\\nwhose main task is to move refugees and migrants to new homes. See www.iom.int\\n\\nIrish Republican Army. May be used alone at first reference from a dateline in the British Isles. If the\\nfull name is used at first reference, the initials need not be bracketed in.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n271\\n\\n\\x0cIreland\\n\\nIrian Jaya\\n\\nironically\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n272\\n\\nDo not use Eire for the Republic of Ireland. See also Northern Ireland.\\n\\nIndonesian province now known as West Papua. It borders Papua New Guinea\\n\\nUse only rarely and with the greatest care. The word has several meanings and most are\\nmisunderstood and misapplied.\\n\\nirregardless\\n\\nThis is a double negative. Use regardless.\\n\\nirreparable\\n\\n-isation, -zation\\n\\n**-ization, -isation\\n\\n-ise, -ize\\n\\nIslam\\n\\nReligion practised by Muslims.\\n\\nFor stories outside the Americas when there is a choice between -isation and (cid:19)ization for a noun\\nending use -isation.\\n\\nFor stories in the Americas when there is a choice between -ization and (cid:19)isation for a noun ending\\nuse (cid:19)ization. (American style)\\n\\nFor stories outside the Americas when there is a choice between -ise and -ize for a verb ending use\\n-ise. Bust stories in the Americas when there is a choice between-ize and (cid:19)ise for a verb ending use\\n(cid:19)ize. (American style)\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n272\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n273\\n\\nSimilar to Muslim as an adjective; often used more widely to describe architecture, art, banking,\\nculture, law etc. An Islamic state is a country ruled by Islamic law (sharia). A Muslim country is one\\nwhose population is predominantly Muslim.\\n\\nA person or organisation advocating a political ideology based on Islam. Islamist is not a pejorative\\nterm. Only some Islamists advocate violence to achieve their goals. Describe these as militant\\nIslamists.\\n\\nNot Islamicisation. The word should be explained with a phrase, depending on context, such as the\\nimposition of Islamic law (sharia).\\n\\nUse ch rather than h in transliterating Israeli names into English, e.g. Chaim not Haim. Use the h\\nform only if we know it is the individual(cid:25)s personal preference.\\n\\nIslamic\\n\\nIslamist\\n\\nIslamisation\\n\\nIsraeli names\\n\\nit\\n\\nits, it(cid:25)s\\n\\nUse the pronoun it rather than she when referring to ships.\\n\\nThe possessive pronoun has no apostrophe, unlike the contraction it(cid:25)s meaning it is. Avoid the\\ncontraction unless quoting someone. Its as a possessive pronoun is often superfluous, e.g. The\\ncompany is trying to reduce its debt and plans to sell its less-profitable assets.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n273\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n274\\n\\nJ\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Jacuzzi\\n2 jail, jailer\\n3 Jap\\n4 Japanese legal system\\n5 jargon\\n6 Jeddah\\n7 jeep, Jeep\\n8 Jerusalem\\n9 Jesus Christ\\n10 jets\\n11 Jew\\n12 jibe\\n13 jihad\\n14 Jihadi, jihadist\\n15 Jittery\\n16 jodhpurs\\n17 John F. Kennedy Space\\nCenter\\n18 join together\\n19 Journalese\\n20 judgment, not\\njudgement.\\n21 judo, ju-jitsu\\n22 jumbo jet\\n23 junkie\\n24 junta\\n25 jury\\n26 just deserts\\n27 justify\\n\\nJacuzzi\\n\\njail, jailer\\n\\nThe registered name of a brand of whirlpool prducts. Use whirlpool bath.\\n\\nNot gaol, gaoler. In the United States, a jail is where a prisoner is held while serving a sentence for\\na misdemeanour, punishable by a sentence of a year or less, or while awaiting trial or sentencing.\\nPrison is where a person convicted of a felony, a more serious crime punishable by more than a\\nyear\\'s detention, serves a sentence.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n274\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n275\\n\\nJap\\n\\nDo not use as an abbreviation for Japanese, except in quotation.\\n\\nJapanese legal system\\n\\nLibel and slander laws in Japan are vague. Police confirmation of criminal investigations is rare,\\nexcept for leaks to an exclusive police agency press club from which foreign media are excluded.\\nReuters pickups of Japanese media reports would probably not be actionable in Japan but they\\ncould be the subject of action in other countries with stricter rules if the plaintiff had a reputation that\\ncould be damaged abroad. Suspects in Japan can be held for as long as 48 hours before a formal\\narrest warrant is issued.\\n\\nThe suspect can then be held for a further 72 hours until a prosecutor decides whether there is\\nenough evidence to lay charges. It can then take up to 20 more days before an indictment is\\nobtained.\\n\\nJargon is specialised language unfamiliar to the average reader, e.g. remuneration, de-escalation,\\nmethodology, going forward, thought leadership, downside risks. If you have to convert into better\\nEnglish a word such as confrontation, use the most conservative of its various meanings. Beware\\nthe language used by financial professionals. Political and military jargon is riddled with\\neuphemisms to conceal meaning. Unless you are directly quoting someone, turn jargon into clear\\nEnglish. Journalism jargon -- newsflow, obits, stringers, paras, rejigs -- should not appear in our\\nstories. Words like obituary should be written in full\\n\\nNot Jedda or Jiddah, Saudi Arabia.\\n\\nLower case for a military vehicle. Upper case for the brand of civilian vehicle.\\n\\nIsraelis and Arabs dispute the status of the city. Israel regards Jerusalem as its "eternal and\\nindivisible" capital but that is not recognised internationally. Palestinians want to have the capital of\\nan eventual Palestinian state there. Do not use it as a synonym for Israel, as in the Jerusalem\\ngovernment.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n275\\n\\njargon\\n\\nJeddah\\n\\njeep, Jeep\\n\\nJerusalem\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nJesus Christ\\n\\n276\\n\\nBe careful using Christ because it is a theological term for Messiah, a title non-Christians would not\\ngive him. The combination Jesus Christ is so well know that in most general stories, we can use it\\non first reference and Jesus after that. Christ on second reference should be limited to strictly\\nChristian theological contexts (see Christ). Using Jesus Christ would not be appropriate in a story\\nabout Jewish views of Jesus. In a story about Muslims discussing him, use Jesus Christ only if they\\ndo. In no case should we refer to him only as Christ on second reference in general stories or in\\nheadlines.\\n\\nMost modern airliners and military aircraft have jet engines. Do not use such terms as jet airliner or\\njetliner unless the fact that the aircraft is jet-powered is relevant. It would be more helpful to specify\\nif an airliner or military aircraft is propeller driven.\\n\\nUse for both men and women. Do not use Jewess.\\n\\nA gibe is a taunt or sneer, to gybe is to swing a sail over or alter course, but in American style a gibe\\nis a taunt or sneer, a jibe is to swing a sail over or alter course, or to be in accord or agree with.\\n\\nAn Islamic holy war or struggle. It can also refer to individual(cid:25)s moral struggle. Use with extreme\\ncare.\\n\\njets\\n\\nJew\\n\\njibe\\n\\njihad\\n\\nJihadi, jihadist\\n\\nDo not use, except in quotes. Has become a loaded term.\\n\\nUse anxious or nervous or frightened.\\n\\nJittery\\n\\njodhpurs\\n\\nNot jodpurs.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n276\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nJohn F. Kennedy Space Center\\n\\n277\\n\\nFlorida, USA. Kennedy Space Center is an acceptable contraction. Mission control is usually at the\\nLyndon B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, and Johnson Space Center is the acceptable\\ncontraction.\\n\\nTrite expressions to avoid:\\n\\njoin together\\n\\nJust join will do.\\n\\nJournalese\\n\\nThumbs up\\n\\nGreen light\\n\\nGravy train\\n\\nSalami tactics\\n\\nThe bottom line\\n\\nCrisis\\n\\nGround-breaking\\n\\nGuesstimate\\n\\nKey\\n\\nLandmark\\n\\nLast-ditch\\n\\nMagic bullet\\n\\nMarathon (talks)\\n\\nMassive\\n\\nMeaningful\\n\\nOil-rich\\n\\nMajor, unless contrasted with something minor\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n277\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n278\\n\\nPolicy wonk\\n\\nPerceptions\\n\\nPrestigious\\n\\nSignificant\\n\\nstrongman\\n\\njudo, ju-jitsu\\n\\njumbo jet\\n\\njunkie\\n\\njunta\\n\\njury\\n\\njust deserts\\n\\njustify\\n\\njudgment, not judgement.\\n\\njudo is a modern form of ju-jitsu, Japanese wrestling.\\n\\nLoosely a large, wide-bodied airliner, specifically the Boeing 747.\\n\\nDo not use for narcotics addict, unless in quotes.\\n\\nA political clique or a government formed by such a clique, usually after a revolution or coup.\\n\\nSingular. The jury has reached its decision.\\n\\nWhat you deserve, not desserts which you have for pudding.\\n\\nTo defend. The prime minister tried to justify the decision, not the prime minister justified the\\ndecision.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n278\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n279\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n279\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n280\\n\\nK\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Kaaba\\n2 Kampuchea, use Cambodia\\n3 karat\\n4 Kathmandu, not Katmandu, Nepal\\n5 keenness\\n6 Kermanshah\\n7 kerosene\\n8 ketchup, not catchup or catsup.\\n9 key\\n10 keynote\\n11 KGB\\n12 Khmer Rouge\\n13 kibbutz\\n14 kick-off, kick off\\n15 kidnap, kidnapping, kidnapped,\\nkidnapper\\n16 kids\\n17 kilogram\\n18 kilometre\\n19 km per hour\\n20 kiloton\\n21 kindergarten\\n22 king\\n23 Kiribati\\n24 Kmart\\n25 Knesset\\n26 knowledgeable\\n27 know-how\\n28 knot\\n29 Kolkata\\n30 Koran\\n31 Korean names\\n32 kosher\\n33 kowtow\\n34 kph\\n35 Ku Klux Klan\\n36 kudos\\n\\nKaaba\\n\\nIslam(cid:25)s most sacred shrine at the centre of the great mosque in Mecca. It is a mass of stone 38\\nfeet high, 40 long and 30 wide (11 x 12 x 9 metres).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n280\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nKampuchea, use Cambodia\\n\\nkarat\\n\\nKathmandu, not Katmandu, Nepal\\n\\nA measurement of weight in precious stones and of purity in gold in American style: carat in UK.\\n\\n281\\n\\nkeenness\\n\\nKermanshah\\n\\nkerosene\\n\\nkey\\n\\nkeynote\\n\\nKGB\\n\\nUse Bakhtaran for both the city of Kermanshah and the province of Kermanshah, Iran.\\n\\nNot kerosine. Medium-light distillate used for lighting and heating and to provide fuel for jet and\\nturbo-prop aircraft engines. Called paraffin or paraffin oil in Britain.\\n\\nketchup, not catchup or catsup.\\n\\nOverused as an adjective and usually superfluous.\\n\\nOne word as in keynote speech or keynote address, but it is a tired clich\'c3\'a9 and best expressed in\\nanother way. Explain why the speech is keynote.\\n\\nInitials of the former Soviet Committee for State Security (Komitet Gosudarstvennoi Bezopasnosti),\\nsplit up and renamed in 1991. Since then Russian internal and foreign security agencies have been\\nreorganised several times but can still be referred to as successors to the KGB. This does not\\ninclude the Interior Ministry in charge of the police, which was separate from the KGB in the\\npost-Stalin Soviet Union.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n281\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n282\\n\\nKhmer Rouge\\n\\nCambodian Communists.\\n\\nkibbutz\\n\\nPlural kibbutzim. An Israeli collective settlement.\\n\\nkick-off, kick off\\n\\nHyphenated for the noun and two words for the verb.\\n\\nkidnap, kidnapping, kidnapped, kidnapper\\n\\nkids\\n\\nUse children\\n\\nkilogram\\n\\nkilometre\\n\\nkm per hour\\n\\nkiloton\\n\\nUse kg (no full stop, same singular and plural) at all references. Convert kilograms to pounds for\\nsmall weights (below 1,000 kg), to tons for larger weights. To convert to pounds roughly multiply by\\n22 and divide by 10, precisely multiply by 2.205. To convert to tons roughly divide by 1,000,\\nprecisely multiply by 0.000984.\\n\\nUse km (no full stop, same singular and plural) at all references, except in a phrase such as\\nhundreds of kilometres. To convert to miles roughly multiply by 5 and divide by 8, precisely multiply\\nby 0.621.\\n\\nFirst reference, kph on second and subsequent references.\\n\\nA measure of explosive force, equal to that of 1,000 tons of TNT. The atomic bomb dropped at\\nHiroshima on August 6, 1945, was a 12.5 kiloton weapon.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n282\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nkindergarten\\n\\n283\\n\\nAt second reference either the king or the full name, e.g. King Baudouin. Also capitalise the titles of\\ndeposed monarchs, e.g. ex-King Zahir Shah.\\n\\nking\\n\\nKiribati\\n\\nKmart\\n\\nKnesset\\n\\nFormerly Gilbert Islands, West Pacific.\\n\\nNo hyphen and no space.\\n\\nLower house of Israeli Parliament.\\n\\nknowledgeable\\n\\nknow-how\\n\\nknot\\n\\nKolkata\\n\\nNot Calcutta, India.\\n\\nKoran\\n\\nCapitalised, the Koran.\\n\\nA measurement of speed, not distance. It describes how many nautical miles (1.15 statute miles) a\\nvessel or aircraft has travelled in one hour. Do not convert to miles per hour. Do not write knots per\\nhour.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n283\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nKorean names\\n\\n284\\n\\nKoreans put their surname first. The given name follows, hyphenated, and with the initial letter of\\nthe first part in upper case and the initial letter of the second part in lower case. Examples: Kim\\nDae-jung, Roh Moo-hyun, Ahn Jung-hwan. Use the surname only at second reference, e.g. Kim,\\nRoh, Ahn. There are some rare cases where there is just one monosyllabic given name, for\\nexample Park Seung, where Seung is the given name.\\n\\nkosher\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nkowtow\\n\\nNo hyphen.\\n\\nkph\\n\\nKu Klux Klan\\n\\nUse km per hour on first reference, kph on subsequent references.\\n\\nA loose-knit organisation of about 40 U.S. groups which claim the supremacy of the white or Aryan\\nrace.\\n\\nkudos\\n\\nFame, credit or renown. Always singular.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n284\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n285\\n\\nL\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 laager, lager\\n2 Labour Party, Labor Day\\n3 lady\\n4 laissez faire\\n5 lambast\\n6 lame duck, lame-duck\\n7 Land\\n8 landmine\\n9 Land Rover\\n10 languid, limpid\\n11 languor, languorous\\n12 Laos\\n13 large-scale\\n14 laser\\n15 last/past/latest\\n16 Last Supper\\n17 late\\n18 latter, former\\n19 lathi\\n20 laudable, laudatory\\n21 launderette\\n22 lay, lie\\n23 lay waste\\n24 lead, leading, led\\n25 leave\\n26 Lebanon\\n27 lectern\\n28 leftist\\n29 left wing\\n30 left-arm spinner\\n31 leg slip\\n32 leg spinner\\n33 legend/legendary\\n34 Legionnaires(cid:25) disease\\n35 legislature\\n36 lesbian, lesbianism\\n37 less\\n38 leukaemia, but in American style leukemia\\n39 level, levelling, levelled, but American style level, leveling,\\nleveled\\n40 Levi(cid:25)s\\n41 leverage\\n42 liaison\\n43 liberal\\n44 licence, license\\n45 lie, lying, lied\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n285\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n286\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 lie in state\\n47 lieutenant\\n48 lifelong\\n49 life-size\\n50 lifestyle, lifetime\\n51 lift\\n52 lift off\\n53 light, lighting, lit\\n54 lightning, lightening\\n55 light-year\\n56 like, as\\n57 like, such as\\n58 like-\\n59 -like\\n60 likeable, but in American style likable\\n61 likely\\n62 linage, lineage\\n63 linchpin\\n64 liquefy, liquefaction\\n65 liquidation\\n66 liquidity\\n67 lists\\n68 literally\\n69 litre\\n70 livable\\n71 livid, vivid\\n72 Lloyd(cid:25)s\\n73 loaded words\\n74 loans\\n75 loath, loathe\\n76 local\\n77 locate/location\\n78 London Club\\n79 long-off, long-on\\n80 long term, long-term\\n81 long time, longtime\\n82 looking to\\n83 Lord(cid:25)s\\n84 lord-lieutenant, lord-lieutenants\\n85 lorry\\n86 loveable\\n87 low-income\\n88 LNG\\n89 LPG\\n90 LSD\\n91 lumbar, lumber\\n92 Luxembourg\\n93 Luxuriant, luxorious\\n94 Lycra\\n95 Lyon\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n286\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nlaager, lager\\n\\nLabour Party, Labor Day\\n\\nA laager is a defensive encampment, literally or metaphorically. Lager is a type of beer.\\n\\n287\\n\\nFollow the convention used for proper names. Note in particular the Australian Labor Party\\n\\nUse woman. Permissible in a team title such as Fulham Ladies(cid:25) football club. Where organisers\\nuse the title Ladies(cid:25) Championship, as at Wimbledon, substitute women(cid:25)s championship.\\n\\nlady\\n\\nlaissez faire\\n\\nlambast\\n\\nLand\\n\\nlandmine\\n\\nLand Rover\\n\\nlame duck, lame-duck\\n\\nTwo words for the noun, hyphenated for the adjective.\\n\\nThe generic term for a federal state in Germany or Austria. The plural is Laender. Use state.\\n\\nTrade mark. Capitalised. No hyphen.\\n\\nlanguid, limpid\\n\\nLanguid means flagging, inert or listless. Limpid is clear or transparent.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n287\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nlanguor, languorous\\n\\n288\\n\\nUse Lao for the language. Otherwise the adjective is Laotian, although there is a Lao ethnic group.\\n\\nAcronym for a device using light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation.\\n\\nLast refers to times up to the present. Past is vaguer. The striker has been injured for the last (not\\npast) three games but the star relived past glories. Use latest if last might confuse the most recent\\nwith the final occasion. His latest attempt my not be his last.\\n\\nLaos\\n\\nlaser\\n\\nlarge-scale\\n\\nBig is shorter and usually better.\\n\\nlast/past/latest\\n\\nLast Supper\\n\\nCapitalised.\\n\\nlate\\n\\nDo not use to mean "dead".\\n\\nlatter, former\\n\\nAvoid these expressions because they make readers read backwards to discern meaning.\\n\\nlathi\\n\\nHeavy stick carried by Indian police. Explain if used.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n288\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nlaudable, laudatory\\n\\nLaudable is praiseworthy. Laudatory is giving or expressing praise.\\n\\n289\\n\\nBritish usage. In the United States, prefer self-service or coin-operated laundry.\\n\\nlaunderette\\n\\nlay, lie\\n\\nLay in the present tense takes an object. I lay down my arms, or I am laying down my arms. He laid\\ndown his arms. He has laid down his arms. Lie in the present tense does not take a direct object. I\\nlie down to sleep, or I am lying down. I lay down yesterday. I have lain down for two hours.\\n\\nlay waste\\n\\nLay waste a city, not lay waste to a city.\\n\\nlead, leading, led\\n\\nThe past participle is led.\\n\\nleave\\n\\nLebanon\\n\\nNo definite article.\\n\\nlectern\\n\\nAs a verb, weak and imprecise. Use a more accurate and active verb. The attack killed three and\\nwounded more than 20, not The attack left three killed. Duffy suffered torn ligaments after two\\nclumsy tackles not Two clumsy tackles left Duffy with torn ligaments.\\n\\nA speaker stands behind a lectern (a stand for notes) on a podium and in a pulpit. Several speakers\\ncan fit on a dais or rostrum or platform.\\n\\nleftist\\n\\nAvoid this term for something more precise.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n289\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n290\\n\\nleft wing\\n\\nA left-winger, a left-wing politician, but the left wing of the political spectrum.\\n\\nDo not use except for legends. No sports person or film star is a legend.\\n\\nleft-arm spinner\\n\\nThe adjective is hyphenated.\\n\\nleg slip\\n\\nTwo words for cricket fielding position.\\n\\nleg spinner\\n\\nTwo words for bowler in cricket.\\n\\nlegend/legendary\\n\\nLegionnaires(cid:25) disease\\n\\nPlural, possessive and capitalised\\n\\nlegislature\\n\\nLower case in all uses.\\n\\nlesbian, lesbianism\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nless\\n\\nUse fewer when referring to numbers of individuals or individual items, less for quantities, e.g.\\nFewer than 10 rescuers were hurt but Less than 1,000 tons of coal was lost.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n290\\n\\n\\x0cLevi(cid:25)s\\n\\nleverage\\n\\nliaison\\n\\nNote the second i.\\n\\nliberal\\n\\nlicence, license\\n\\nlie, lying, lied\\n\\nTo tell untruths.\\n\\nlie in state\\n\\nlieutenant\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n291\\n\\nleukaemia, but in American style leukemia\\n\\nlevel, levelling, levelled, but American style level, leveling, leveled\\n\\nTrademark for a brand of jeans. Note the apostrophe.\\n\\nThe ratio of a company\\'s debt to equity. See glossary of financial terms.\\n\\nCapitalise only when part of a proper name.\\n\\nLicence is the noun, license the verb, but in American style license is both the noun and verb.\\n\\nApplies only to people having a state funeral.\\n\\nHyphenate lieutenant-colonel and lieutenant-commander. At second reference just the colonel, the\\ncommander. Second lieutenant is not hyphenated but sub-lieutenant is. In the U.S. navy it is\\nLieutenant (j.g.) John Smith, j.g. meaning junior grade.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n291\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n292\\n\\nIt is wrong to call someone a lifelong alcoholic unless they started drinking in infancy. Make sure the\\nactivity or attribute really is lifelong.\\n\\nlifelong\\n\\nlife-size\\n\\nlift\\n\\nlift off\\n\\nlifestyle, lifetime\\n\\nlight-year\\n\\nlike, as\\n\\nlike, such as\\n\\nDo not use as a synonym for raise, as in The Federal Reserve lifts discount rate.\\n\\nLift off is the verb, liftoff the noun and adjective.\\n\\nlight, lighting, lit\\n\\nUse lit for the past participle.\\n\\nlightning, lightening\\n\\nThunder follows lightning. After the storm the sky will be lightening.\\n\\nA measure of distance not time. It is the distance light will travel in one year, about 6 million million\\nmiles (6 trillion miles) or 9.6 million million km (9.6 trillion km).\\n\\nAs compares verbs, like compares nouns and pronouns. He acted as a hero should, but he acted\\nlike a hero.\\n\\nLike means similar to. Such is used when offering an example. Politicians like Williams have short\\ntempers and long memories, but Players such as Smith, Patel and Jones are essential in the team.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n292\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n293\\n\\nDo not use like as a synonym for as if. He looks as if he is reviving, not like he is reviving.\\n\\nlike-\\n\\n-like\\n\\nlikely\\n\\nHyphenate the prefix when it means similar to, e.g. like-spirited. No hyphen when it is part of a\\nsingle word, e.g. likeliness, likelihood.\\n\\nDo not precede the suffix with a hyphen unless it would create a triplle "l" or the main element is a\\nproper noun. E.g. shell-like, Norwalk-like.\\n\\nlikeable, but in American style likable\\n\\nAvoid as an adverb modifying a verb, e.g. The prime minister will likely announce the date of the\\nelection on Friday. Preferable is The prime minister is likely to announce\'e2(cid:128)\'a6\\n\\nLinage is measurement or payment by the line and lineage is ancestry.\\n\\nlinage, lineage\\n\\nlinchpin\\n\\nNot lynchpin. But lynch law.\\n\\nliquefy, liquefaction\\n\\nNot liquify. But liquidate.\\n\\nliquidation\\n\\nSee bankruptcy.\\n\\nliquidity\\n\\nThe ease with which financial instruments can be traded on a market and turned into cash. Markets\\nor instruments are described as being liquid, and having depth or liquidity, if there are enough\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n293\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n294\\n\\nbuyers and sellers to absorb sudden shifts in supply and demand without price distortions. The\\nopposite of illiquid. The term can also be used loosely to describe cash flow in a business, so a\\ncompany that has fallen into a liquidity trap may have growing orders and production but has run out\\nof cash.\\n\\nLists should be in alphabetical order unless there is some other point being emphasised in the text\\nthat calls for a different order. So when referring to the G7, for example, say it (cid:28)comprises Britain,\\nCanada, France, Germany, Italy Japan and the United States.(cid:29)\\n\\nUse only in quotation since it almost always, in fact, means metaphorically.\\n\\nTo convert to Imperial gallons roughly multiply by two and divide by nine, precisely multiply by 0.22.\\nTo convert to U.S. gallons roughly divide by 4, precisely multiply by 0.264. American style is liter.\\n\\nLivid can be used colloquially for extremely angry, but it means black and blue or pale and ashen.\\nDo not confuse with vivid, which means full of life or very bright.\\n\\nLloyd(cid:25)s of London association of underwriters and Lloyd(cid:25)s Register of Shipping both have\\napostrophes. Lloyds TSB Bank has no apostrophe.\\n\\nAvoid using admitted, agreed, according to, revealed, refuted, claimed etc. instead of said. They all\\ncontain an element of judgment by the reporter.\\n\\nDo not use the verb to give when referring to loans; they are paid for through interest. Do not say\\nsomeone is raising a loan when it is being arranged. Use the word raise only when the amount of a\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n294\\n\\nlists\\n\\nliterally\\n\\nlitre\\n\\nlivable\\n\\nlivid, vivid\\n\\nLloyd(cid:25)s\\n\\nloaded words\\n\\nloans\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n295\\n\\nloan already arranged is being increased. We need the exact name of the borrower, whether the\\nloan is being guaranteed by a parent company or another body, the amount, the maturity and the\\ninterest rate. If the interest rate is variable or (cid:28)floating(cid:29), then we need the specific reference or base\\nrate of interest, e.g. the three-month or six-month London interbank offered rate (Libor), and the\\nmargin of interest paid above, or even below it, e.g. 1/4 percentage point.\\n\\nAbbreviations such as Libor, Sibor, etc., are acceptable on second reference or in headlines. The\\ninterest payment might vary with the maturity. A five-year loan could pay 1/8 over Libor for three\\nyears, rising to 1/4 over Libor for the last two years. The loan might have a grace period (cid:19) the\\nperiod during which only interest and no principal is paid.\\n\\nWe should also report the fees paid to the banks, to discover the true cost to the borrower. For\\nloans, there is likely to be a commitment fee (cid:19) payment on any unused funds (cid:19) and a facility fee,\\nwhich is a payment for arranging the loan.\\n\\nBefore a loan is fully repaid, borrowers can change the terms or replace it altogether. Sometimes a\\nfinancially healthy borrower will take advantage of an improving market or credit rating to do so; but\\noften requests for changed terms are signs of financial desperation. Of the definitions below, for\\nexample, a refinancing or refinancing in itself does not indicate financial health or desperation. More\\ndetails would be required. The other terms, however, signal trouble.\\n\\nRefinancing: Borrower pays off one loan with the proceeds from another provided by other lenders.\\nIf the lenders are effectively the same, bankers might call it a refinancing to disguise a rescheduling.\\n\\nRestructuring: Borrower arranges to replace debt of one maturity with the debt of another.\\n\\nRescheduling: Borrower delays repayment of principal according to a new schedule. Interest\\ncontinues to flow, but the rate of interest might be raised or lowered.\\n\\nMoratorium: Borrower declares it needs time to sort out its economic affairs and suspends\\npayments of principal and possibly of interest due. Determine whether interest will be paid. If so,\\nbanks can continue to classify the loan as a (cid:28)performing(cid:29) asset.\\n\\nRepudiation: Borrower declares that it does not intend to service or repay existing debts.\\n\\nDefault:A loose term best avoided unless technically correct. (It is often used to mean anything\\nfrom failure to make an interest payment up to an intent never to pay off a debt at all.) Technically,\\nthe borrower does not default. The lender declares the borrower in default, e.g. if the borrower does\\nnot repay either the interest or principal according to the loan conditions.\\n\\nThe borrower may also be in breach of certain agreements concerning its overall financial health. In\\neither case, an (cid:28)event of default(cid:29) may then have occurred, but the lender can refrain from calling a\\ndefault, preferring to help the borrower sort things out. Given the imprecision of the phrase, make\\nclear the nature of any default declared. To avoid using the word default, bankers often prefer to call\\nloans sub-standard, nonperforming or value-impaired.\\n\\nloath, loathe\\n\\nLoath (not loth) is the adjective meaning reluctant or unwilling and loathe is the verb to dislike\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n295\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n296\\n\\nintensely.\\n\\nlocal\\n\\nlocate/location\\n\\nLondon Club\\n\\nDo not use. Local to what and to where? Say exactly where something is if you need to locate it. For\\nexample, the phrase local officials can confuse. Say officials in Tokyo, in Montevideo or wherever.\\n\\nCumbersome and can usually be replaced by a better alternative, e.g. find, place, or by rephrasing\\nthe sentence.\\n\\nAn informal group of commercial creditors that meets to discuss debt problems with a particular\\ncountry. They will normally set up an advisory committee of banks headed by a major creditor to\\nlook into ways to reschedule or write off debt arrears. Meetings are rarely held in London, but the\\nterm is bankers\\' shorthand to differentiate commercial creditors from the official ones which make\\nup the Paris Club. Write an informal group of commercial creditors, called the London Club among\\nbankers ...\\n\\nlong-off, long-on\\n\\nHyphenated for cricket fielding positions.\\n\\nlong term, long-term\\n\\nTwo words for the noun, one word hyphenated for the adjective. They had a long-term relationship\\nwhich endured for the long term.\\n\\nlong time, longtime\\n\\nTwo words for the noun, one word for the adjective. Theirs was a longtime friendship which lasted a\\nlong time.\\n\\nlooking to\\n\\nJapan was looking to Washington for support is all right. Japan was looking to restore good\\nrelations with Moscow is not.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n296\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n297\\n\\nLord(cid:25)s\\n\\nThe London cricket ground. Note apostrophe.\\n\\nlord-lieutenant, lord-lieutenants\\n\\nHyphenated. Note the plural.\\n\\nlorry\\n\\nUse truck.\\n\\nloveable\\n\\nlow-income\\n\\nIf you mean poor, say so.\\n\\nliquefied natural gas.\\n\\nLNG\\n\\nLPG\\n\\nLSD\\n\\nlumbar, lumber\\n\\nLuxembourg\\n\\nliquefied petroleum gas (mainly propane and butane).\\n\\nExplain: "the halucinogenic drug LSD."\\n\\nLumbar is of the lower back and lumber is timber, stored furniture or to move heavily.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n297\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nLuxuriant, luxorious\\n\\n298\\n\\nLuxuriant is growth in rich abundance or excess. Luxurious is given to luxury or furnished with\\nluxuries.\\n\\nLycra\\n\\nLyon\\n\\nA trademark. Use generic terms such as "stretch fabric".\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n298\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n299\\n\\nM\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Maastricht Treaty\\n2 Macau, not Macao\\n3 Mach number\\n4 machinegun\\n5 macroeconomic\\n6 Madagascar\\n7 Madonna\\n8 Madras\\n9 madrasa\\n10 mafia\\n11 Maghreb\\n12 mailman\\n13 maintain\\n14 major\\n15 majority of, vast majority of\\n16 majority, plurality\\n17 majority leader\\n18 Malagasy\\n19 Maldive Islands\\n20 Mali\\n21 Maltese\\n22 mammon\\n23 man, mankind\\n24 manifesto, manifestos\\n25 Manila\\n26 manoeuvre, but in American style maneuver\\n27 mantel, mantle\\n28 manufacture, manufacturer\\n29 maps\\n30 marines\\n31 marquis\\n32 Marseille\\n33 marshal, marshalling, marshalled, but in American style marshal, marshaling,\\nmarshalled\\n34 Massawa\\n35 Masters Series\\n36 Masters Tournament\\n37 masterful/masterly\\n38 match point\\n39 materiel\\n40 materialise\\n41 may, can\\n42 may, might\\n43 May Day, mayday\\n44 mayoress\\n45 McDonnell Douglas Corp\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n299\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n300\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 M.D.\\n47 meagre, but in American style meager\\n48 mean\\n49 Mecca\\n50 measures\\n51 Medal of Honor\\n52 Medecins sans Frontieres\\n53 media\\n54 medieval\\n55 medical stories\\n56 Medicaid\\n57 Medicare\\n58 meet, mete\\n59 mega-\\n60 megaton\\n61 megawatt\\n62 Melanesia\\n63 memento, mementos\\n64 memorandum, memorandums\\n65 men(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s\\n66 Mercalli scale\\n67 Mercedes-Benz\\n68 merchant marine\\n69 merry-go-round\\n70 Messerschmitt\\n71 Messiah\\n72 metal, mettle\\n73 metaphors\\n74 meters\\n75 metre, but meter in American style\\n76 metric ton\\n77 Micronesia\\n78 mid-\\n79 middle initials in names\\n80 middleman\\n81 Mideast\\n82 MiG\\n83 mileage\\n84 mile\\n85 miles per gallon\\n86 miles per hour\\n87 militant\\n88 Military\\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\\n88.1 Aircraft\\n88.2 Armoured Vehicles\\n88.3 Battle\\n88.4 Military titles\\n88.5 Ships\\n88.6 Units, formations\\n88.7 Weapons\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n300\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n301\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n89 militate, mitigate\\n90 millennium, millennia\\n91 milligram\\n92 millimetre, but millimeter in American style\\n93 million\\n94 milquetoast\\n95 minimal\\n96 minuscule\\n97 miracles\\n98 mischievous, mischievously\\n99 mob\\n100 modalities\\n101 moderate\\n102 Mohammad\\n103 Muhammad\\n104 Monaco\\n105 money\\n106 moneyed\\n107 Mont Blanc\\n108 Montessori\\n109 months\\n110 Moonie\\n111 moot\\n112 more than\\n113 moribund\\n114 Mormon\\n115 Morse code\\n116 mortuary, not morgue\\n117 Moslem\\n118 mosquito\\n119 mother-in-law, mothers-in-law\\n120 Mother(cid:25)s Day\\n121 mount\\n122 move\\n123 move to\\n124 mpg, mph\\n125 Ms\\n126 Muhammad\\n127 mujahideen\\n128 Mullah\\n129 multi\\n130 Mumbai\\n131 murder\\n132 Murphy\\'s law\\n133 Muslim\\n134 mute\\n135 Myanmar\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n301\\n\\n\\x0c302\\n\\nMach 1, Mach 2 etc. The Mach number is the ratio of an aircraft(cid:25)s speed through the air compared\\nwith the speed of sound in the same conditions.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nMaastricht Treaty\\n\\nMacau, not Macao\\n\\nMach number\\n\\nmachinegun\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nmacroeconomic\\n\\nNo hyphen.\\n\\nMadagascar\\n\\nMadonna\\n\\nMadras\\n\\nUse Chennai, India.\\n\\nmadrasa\\n\\nmafia\\n\\nUse Malagasy for the people and the language.\\n\\nUse this title or the Virgin Mary not Our Lady except in titles such as Our Lady of Czestochowa or in\\nthe names of churches.\\n\\nArabic word for school. Used to describe an Islamic religious school in some Muslim countries.\\n\\nLower case unless referring to a specific branch.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n302\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nMaghreb\\n\\n303\\n\\nLoosely North Africa, less Egypt, and literally the western part of the Middle East. Maghreb is also\\nthe official name in Arabic of the Moroccan state.\\n\\nUse this word with care. As a verb of saying it can, like claim, suggest reporters are sceptical about\\nthe statement quoted.\\n\\nAvoid as an adjective. If it is not superfluous find a precise alternative. One exception is golf, where\\nthe four biggest tournaments are known as the majors.\\n\\nUse letter carrier or postal worker (U.S.)\\n\\nmailman\\n\\nmaintain\\n\\nmajor\\n\\nmajority of, vast majority of\\n\\nUse most.\\n\\nmajority, plurality\\n\\nIn election results a majority is more than half the votes, or more votes than all others combined. A\\nplurality is more than the next highest number of votes. It may be less than 50 percent. An absolute\\nmajority is more than half the votes and a relative majority is more votes than anyone else. When\\nused alone, majority and plurality are usually followed by a singular verb.\\n\\nmajority leader\\n\\nU.S. political term. Capital when used as a formal title, e.g. Senatoe Majority Leader Harry Reid or\\nHouse Majority Leader Steny Hoyer.\\n\\nMalagasy\\n\\nThe people or language of Madagascar.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n303\\n\\n\\x0c304\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nMaldive Islands\\n\\nAdjective Maldivian, South Asia.\\n\\nMali\\n\\nCountry in West Africa; adjective Malian\\n\\nMaltese\\n\\nPeople of Malta.\\n\\nmammon\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nman, mankind\\n\\nHumanity is preferable when referring to the human race.\\n\\nmanifesto, manifestos\\n\\nManila\\n\\nCapital of the Philippines. Lower case for paper and envelopes.\\n\\nmanoeuvre, but in American style maneuver\\n\\nmantel, mantle\\n\\nMantel is a frame around a fireplace. Mantle is a cloak or covering.\\n\\nmanufacture, manufacturer\\n\\nMake or maker is shorter.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n304\\n\\n\\x0cmaps\\n\\nmarines\\n\\nmarquis\\n\\nNot marquess\\n\\nMarseille\\n\\nNot Marseilles, France.\\n\\nMassawa\\n\\nNot Massoua, Ethiopia.\\n\\nMasters Series\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n305\\n\\nAlways check distances and directions given in a story by using a map. Check place names, too.\\n\\nCapitalise when referring to the U.S. Marine Corps or when referring to its members. e.g. Six U.S.\\nMarines, the U.S. Marines, Marine operations. Do not refer to them as "soldiers".\\n\\nmarshal, marshalling, marshalled, but in American style marshal,\\nmarshaling, marshalled\\n\\nThe noun is an official in charge of ceremonies or military affairs, as in field marshal. The verb is to\\narrange in order. It is the Marshall Plan and the Marshall Islands in the Pacific. Do not confuse with\\nmartial, belonging to war or to the army or navy.\\n\\nLeading tournaments in men(cid:25)s tennis. Capitalised and with no apostrophe, e.g. Rome Masters\\nSeries tournament.\\n\\nMasters Tournament\\n\\nGolf tournament. No apostrophe, the Masters on second reference.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n305\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nmasterful/masterly\\n\\n306\\n\\nMasterly means very skilful and worthy of a master or champion. Masterful is imperious and\\ndomineering. The champion put on a masterly display of putting but The CEO had a masterful way\\nwith his executives.\\n\\nTwo words in tennis and other racket sports(cid:25) scoring.\\n\\nUse the English term military equipment.\\n\\nmatch point\\n\\nmateriel\\n\\nmaterialise\\n\\nmay, can\\n\\nmay, might\\n\\nUnless you mean take bodily form it is simpler to write happen or occur or take place.\\n\\nMay is about asking permission and can is about the ability to act. If we may borrow your car we\\ncan drive to the beach. May can also be about uncertainty. War may start tomorrow, or may not.\\nWar can start tomorrow because all the weapons are in place. Using may in headlines is overdone.\\n\\nIn the past tense may implies continued uncertainty, while might implies a possibility which did not\\nhappen. Manchester United may have signed a new striker (but they may have not). Manchester\\nCity might have won the cup (but they did not, because they failed to sign the striker).\\n\\nMay Day, mayday\\n\\nMay Day, capitalised, is the holiday, and mayday is the international distress call for ships and\\naircraft.\\n\\nmayoress\\n\\nThe wife of a mayor, not a female mayor.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n306\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nMcDonnell Douglas Corp\\n\\nNot MacDonnell or McDonnell-Douglas for the U.S. aircraft company.\\n\\n307\\n\\nM.D.\\n\\nmean\\n\\nMecca\\n\\nmeasures\\n\\nUse doctor, physician or surgeon.\\n\\nmeagre, but in American style meager\\n\\nPlace the word average where it correctly qualifies the item or quantity intended, e.g. Reporters\\ndrink an average of six cups of coffee a day. (Not: the average reporter drinks six cups of coffee a\\nday). There are three types:(most often used) is calculated by adding all the constituent parts\\ntogether and dividing by the number of parts.The middle value, meaning the number of values\\nabove it is the same as the number below it. The most commonly occurring value.\\n\\nOne of Islam(cid:25)s Holy Places. Do not use in a colloquial sense since it is disparaging e.g. tourist\\nmecca.\\n\\nWhen abbreviating metric units use the singular form without a full stop, e.g. kg or km not kgs or\\nkms. The following need not be spelled out on first mention: kg, km, lb, cm, mm. See also\\nconversions, pound and ton/tonne.\\n\\nMedal of Honor\\n\\nThe highest U.S. military honor, awarded by Congress. Do not refer to "Congressional Medal of\\nHonor".\\n\\nMedecins sans Frontieres\\n\\nLiterally Doctors without Borders, a group of volunteer doctors and other medical staff of various\\nnationalities who operate with the agreement of the local government where they are needed, e.g.\\nwar, epidemics, famine. It has no political line. Spell out in first reference. At second reference\\nabbreviate it to MSF and translate it. Take care when saying where MSF is based. There are\\ndifferent branches which act independently of each other. See www.msf.org\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n307\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n308\\n\\nmedia\\n\\nA plural noun.\\n\\nmedieval\\n\\nmedical stories\\n\\nMedicaid\\n\\nMedicare\\n\\nmeet, mete\\n\\nmega-\\n\\nmegaton\\n\\nmegawatt\\n\\nHandle stories about new threats to health or reputed cures for AIDS, cancer and other scourges\\nwith great care They play on the hopes and fears of millions of people. If a story making dramatic\\nclaims for a cure for AIDS or cancer does not come from a reputable named source it must be\\nchecked with recognised medical experts.\\n\\nU.S. federal state programme that helps pay for health care for the needy, elderly, blind and\\ndisabled and low-income families.\\n\\nU.S. federal health care insurance program for people 65 and older and for the disabled.\\n\\nHe met party leaders, not He met with party leaders. Mete is distribute or apportion, and meet is\\nfitting. You mete out meet punishment. The adjectival use should be avoided unless in direct\\nquotation.\\n\\nAvoid as a prefix meaning very large. Use only when it means one million.\\n\\nA measure of explosive force. A megaton is equivalent to the explosive force of one million tons of\\nTNT (trinitrotoluene).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n308\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n309\\n\\nThe capacity of a power station is measured in megawatts and its output in megawatt hours. Do not\\nconfuse megawatt MW (a million watts) with a milliwatt mW (a thousandth of a watt).\\n\\nMelanesia\\n\\nAn island group in the Southwest Pacific. Micronesia is a group north of Melanesia and Polynesia is\\nin the central Pacific.\\n\\nmemento, mementos\\n\\nmemorandum, memorandums\\n\\nmen(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s\\n\\nBut menswear and womenswear.\\n\\nMercalli scale\\n\\nSee earthquakes.\\n\\nMercedes-Benz\\n\\nNote hyphen.\\n\\nmerchant marine\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\nmerry-go-round\\n\\nMesserschmitt\\n\\nNot Messerschmidt for the German aircraft or in the aerospace and armaments group\\nMesserschmitt-Boelkow-Bloehm.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n309\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n310\\n\\nCapitalised in religious uses and lower case when used generically to mean a liberator.\\n\\nMessiah\\n\\nmetal, mettle\\n\\nmetaphors\\n\\nmetric ton\\n\\nMicronesia\\n\\nSee Melanesia.\\n\\nMetal is copper or steel. Mettle is spirit, temperament or courage.\\n\\nA fresh and vivid metaphor can add much to a story. But avoid mixed metaphors, e.g. The Egyptian\\nswimmers walked away with the championships, and metaphors whose literal sense is absurd e.g.,\\na growing bottleneck, which would solve rather than aggravate a problem.\\n\\nmeters\\n\\nNot metres for gas, electricity and parking meters.\\n\\nmetre, but meter in American style\\n\\nSpell out in full, e.g. 100 metres. Convert metres to feet for short distances (up to 10 metres), to\\nyards for longer distances. To convert to feet roughly add a zero and divide by three, precisely\\nmultiply by 3.28. To convert to yards roughly add a zero and divide by nine, precisely multiply by\\n1.094. In athletics and swimming results metre, kilometre and centimetre are no longer specified.\\nThe figure is enough. In sports reporting do not convert to feet or yards except for golf and U.S.\\nsport.\\n\\nWe use both tons and tonnes, without having to give a conversion, but you must make clear what\\nkind of ton(ne) is meant, using the terms long and short where appropriate. The three measures\\nare:\\n\\ntonne (cid:19) 2,204.6 pounds (1,000 kg), formerly called metric ton long ton (cid:19) 2,240 pounds (or 20\\nhundredweights, 20 x 112 pounds). short ton (cid:19) 2,000 pounds, American ton\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n310\\n\\n\\x0cmid-\\n\\nmiddleman\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nMideast\\n\\nMiG\\n\\nmileage\\n\\nmile\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n311\\n\\nNo hyphen unless the following word starts with a capital letter, e.g. mid-Pacific, mid-Atlantic.\\nCricket terms are an exception, e.g. mid-off, mid-on, mid-wicket. Also midterm, no hyphen. .\\n\\nmiddle initials in names\\n\\nDo not use them unless they are an essential distinguisher.\\n\\nNever use in a headline or text. Use Middle East.\\n\\nNote the lower case i. Use this abbreviation for the aircraft, e.g. MiG-25.\\n\\nTo convert to kilometres roughly multiply by 8 and divide by 5, precisely multiply by 1.609. One\\nnautical or sea mile equals 1.853 km.\\n\\nUse the abbreviation mpg only for second and subsequent references.\\n\\nmiles per gallon\\n\\nmiles per hour\\n\\nUse the abbreviation mph only for second and subsequent references.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n311\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n312\\n\\nA non-state group or members of a non-state group who carry arms or believe in using force to\\nachieve aims.\\n\\nmilitant\\n\\nMilitary\\n\\nIf in doubt, use the generic term or leave it out. Avoid military jargon, which is particularly\\nimpenetrable. However, an attempt should be made to understand it. Jargon is encouraged in the\\narmed forces to reduce the emotional element in the business of killing people, to encourage\\nsecrecy and to reduce the number of words in issuing orders. Faced by an inquisitive civilian, the\\nmilitary may deliberately obfuscate or evade admissions of defeat or error with an avalanche of\\nesoteric terms and acronyms. Know them, but do not use them. For example collateral damage,\\nmilitary-speak for striking unintended targets, whether people or buildings. Also, friendly fire, which\\nmeans attacking your own side by mistake in combat. Do not use either unless in quotes. Prefer\\nplain English. Similarly, avoid military metaphors.\\n\\nAircraft\\n\\nair base (cid:19) two words. So also air raid but airspace and airstrike.\\n\\nAWACS (cid:19) Airborne Warning And Control System. Aircraft equipped with search radar,\\nheight-finding radar and communications equipment for controlling weapons, generally other\\naircraft, surveillance and early warning. The United States uses modified Boeing 707s with rotating\\nradar domes above the fuselage. The U.S. Navy uses a smaller AWACS, the twin-engine turboprop\\nE2C Hawkeye with a revolving dome. It flies from aircraft carriers and is built by Northrop Grumman\\nCorp.\\n\\nHelicopters (cid:19) Helicopters are also aircraft. A spokesman who mentions aircraft could be referring\\nto fixed-wing aircraft or helicopters or both.\\n\\nstealth (cid:19) U.S. stealth aircraft are the F-117A Nighthawk fighter which is in fact a small bomber\\nflown by a single crew member and designed for night attack on ground targets, not aerial warfare,\\nand the larger B-2 (cid:28)flying-wing(cid:29) bomber manned by two or three crew and able to carry 16\\n2,000-pound (900 kg) satellite-guided bombs. Both aircraft are subsonic. They depend for their\\nsafety on carbon-based composite building materials and an unusual shape that absorbs radar\\nsignals or reflects them at angles which make the aircraft difficult to detect for useful periods of time.\\nDo not capitalise stealth.\\n\\nSTOL (cid:19) short take-off and landing. (See also VTOL)\\n\\nstrafe (cid:19) to machinegun or rocket from the air. Do not use in referring to aerial bombing or\\nground-to-ground attacks.\\n\\nUAV (cid:19) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle. The Predator is a U.S.-built UAV costing $3 million that is\\nprimarily used to collect intelligence but can act as an offensive weapon, sometimes equipped with\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n312\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n313\\n\\ntwo Hellfire missiles. The Global Hawk with a wingspan wider than a Boeing 737(cid:25)s can loiter high\\nabove the area it is monitoring for more than 24 hours while the Dragoneye is a tiny unmanned\\nscout aircraft for reconnaissance by ground troops.\\n\\nVTOL (cid:19) vertical take-off and landing. The British-designed AV-8B Harrier (cid:24)jump jet(cid:25) developed in\\nthe 1960s is unique among jet fighters in being able to take off vertically.\\n\\nwarplane (cid:19) One word. It is a useful one for the lead paragraph but it is better in most cases to be\\nspecific (fighter, bomber) although some aircraft can carry out a variety of missions, such as the\\nF16. The Fairchild A-10 Thunderbolt is a ground-attack aircraft designed to support ground forces.\\nThe Panavia Tornado is a multi-role combat aircraft. The B-52 is a long-range bomber. In financial\\nstories and when dealing with contracts, sales and development, put the manufacturer(cid:25)s name (and\\ncompany) before the aircraft type.\\n\\nArmoured Vehicles\\n\\nIf in doubt about the name of any of these just call it an armoured vehicle. An artillery piece such as\\na gun or howitzer may be mounted on tracks or wheels and be self-propelled. Journalists have\\nmistaken self-propelled guns for tanks.\\n\\narmoured fighting vehicle (AFV) (cid:19) neither a tank nor an armoured personnel carrier, but a hybrid\\nevolved in an era of fast-paced warfare in which infantry must keep up with tanks. An AFV like the\\nBradley Fighting Vehicle used by the U.S. military carries a squad of infantry. The Soviet-designed\\nBMP-1 carries infantry and is armed with an anti-tank missile launcher and a 73mm gun. The British\\nGKN Warrior is a 25-tonne tracked armoured vehicle with a 30mm cannon.\\n\\narmoured personnel carrier (APC) (cid:19) A tracked or wheeled vehicle that carries small groups of\\ninfantry into battle. It provides protection against small-arms fire and shell splinters, and may be\\narmed with machineguns. The Soviet designed BTR-60 has gunports down the side.\\n\\ntank (cid:19) The main battlefield weapon, combining firepower, mobility and protection. They are tracked,\\nand usually armed with a large gun of perhaps 105mm, 120mm or 130mm calibre firing with the\\nhelp of computerised target selection and fire control. Shells hardened with depleted uranium may\\nbe used to pierce armour. The secondary armament consists of one or more machineguns. The\\nM1-A1 and M1-A2 Abrams used by the U.S. army have top speeds of 40 mph (60 kph). The British\\nChallenger tank is designed to survive nuclear, chemical and biological attack.\\n\\nBattle\\n\\nbattlefield (cid:19) one word. Also battlefront and battleground.\\n\\nbattledress (cid:19) A loose, drab uniform, comprising a single overall or jacket and trousers, that blends\\nin with the environment, provides protection against extreme weather and allows plenty of\\nmovement. Write soldiers in battle gear to refer to soldiers wearing the harness known as webbing\\nthat supports ammunition clips, grenades, water bottles, entrenching tools, ground sheet and\\nrations.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n313\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n314\\n\\nBDA (cid:19) Military shorthand for Bomb Damage Assessment. Avoid both unless in quotes. Spell out\\nBDA in brackets if used in a quote\\n\\nbiological warfare (cid:19) The use in warfare of micro-organisms to cause death or disease.\\n\\nceasefire (cid:19) one word\\n\\nchemical warfare (cid:19) The use of chemicals other than explosives, e.g. gas.\\n\\nfighting (cid:19) This is relative. It ranges from hand-to-hand combat to the risk of an exchange of\\nintercontinental ballistic missiles. Avoid (cid:24)fierce(cid:25) fighting and (cid:24)heavy(cid:25) fighting unless casualties are\\nknown to be heavy or the fire intense. Spell out what is meant. Avoid using (cid:24)infantry fighting(cid:25)\\nsimply because combatants are on foot. It implies a set-piece engagement not, for instance, a few\\nmilitiamen jumping garden walls and blasting away with rifles.\\n\\ngunbattle (cid:19) one word. So also gunfire as well as gunman and gunpoint.\\n\\nno man(cid:25)s land (cid:19) no hyphens\\n\\noffensive (cid:19) An offensive is more specific than an attack. It is an extensive attack over days, weeks\\nor months often on a wide front or an entire theatre of a campaign or war by air, sea or ground\\nforces and sometimes all three.\\n\\nraid (cid:19) Use only when a force attacks and then leaves an objective, as opposed to occupying it.\\n\\nRanks should be never be abbreviated and should be capitalised when referring to a specific\\nindividual and hyphenated if two words, e.g. Major-General John Brown. At subsequent reference\\nhe is either Brown or the general (not the major general). One exception to the hyphenation rule is\\nsecond lieutenant.\\n\\nMilitary titles\\n\\nShips\\n\\nwarship (cid:19) A naval vessel, though not necessarily an armed one. The term does imply the ship is a\\ncombatant but a fleet auxiliary (cid:19) a navy ship carrying stores, fuel and ammunition (cid:19) is a warship.\\nWarships vary in armament and in size, from a few hundred tonnes to tens of thousands. Identify\\nthe type (cid:19) e.g. fast patrol-boat, corvette, frigate, destroyer, cruiser. Never use battleship as a\\nsynonym for warship.\\n\\naircraft carrier (cid:19) A floating airfield, it carries fixed-wing aircraft on its flight deck and/or helicopters.\\nIt should not be confused with other classes of warship, such as frigate, destroyer or cruiser. These\\nmay also carry helicopters but they are not aircraft carriers.\\n\\nassault ship (cid:19) A warship designed to support amphibious and air operations against a land- based\\nenemy. They carry helicopters, landing craft, commandos or marines, and may carry amphibious\\narmoured vehicles.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n314\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n315\\n\\nbattleship (cid:19) A specific class of warship, the battleship is obsolete. It is not to be confused with\\nother classes like corvette, minesweeper, patrol boat, frigate, destroyer. Do not use as a synonym\\nfor warship.\\n\\nsubmarine (cid:19) In naval parlance a boat rather than a ship. A submarine may fight submerged or on\\nthe surface, using torpedoes or missiles (cid:19) the missiles being tactical or strategic. There are two\\nmain submarine types depending on the method of propulsion: nuclear and diesel electric.\\n\\nUnits, formations\\n\\nUnits, formations, army (cid:19) Use capitals when you write the title of a specific unit e.g. the 1st\\nInfantry Division but otherwise say division. Also note that there are many national exceptions to\\nthese broad definitions.\\n\\nsquad (cid:19) The basic building block of an army, equivalent to the British section of eight soldiers.\\nThree squads or sections form a platoon. platoon (cid:19) The essential tactical unit in any army, capable\\nof patrolling, attacking and defending independently. Usually about 30-strong, an infantry\\n\\nplatoon typically has three sections or squads. The platoon may be led by a sergeant or a junior\\ncommissioned officer. It may have its own light machinegun and mortar units of two or three men\\neach as well as anti-tank weapons and possibly shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles. In a cavalry\\n(armoured) unit the platoon is often called a troop of three or four vehicles. Some armies use troop\\ninstead of platoon in their artillery units.\\n\\ncompany (cid:19) usually three platoons commanded by a major or captain. In a cavalry unit the term\\nsquadron may be used. Artillery may be organised in batteries of six to a dozen guns,\\nrocket-launchers or mortars. battalion (cid:19) the basic building block of any big military formation, a\\nbattalion comprises about 500 to 1,000 soldiers, broken down into companies, platoons, squads or\\nsections. It is usually commanded by a lieutenant-colonel. It is the highest single-arm unit in many\\narmies i.e. infantry, armoured or engineer battalion. Higher formations tend to be mixed and\\ncomprise, for instance, infantry and tank battalions. Some armies use the term regiment for a tank\\nor artillery battalion.\\n\\nbrigade (cid:19) Several battalions or regiments grouped together. Commanded by a brigadier, as in the\\nBritish Army, or brigadier-general. Some armies confuse reporters by using regiment to mean a\\nbrigade.\\n\\ndivision (cid:19) A group of brigades. Usually commanded by a major-general, it can contain all elements\\nneeded to operate independently and is then effectively a small self-contained army.\\n\\ncorps (cid:19) Usually at least two divisions. Often commanded by a lieutenant-general.\\n\\narmy (cid:19) At least two corps. Tends to be the command of a full five-star general or, a marshal or field\\nmarshal. The army group (cid:19) of several armies (cid:19) was a feature of the big land battles of World War\\nTwo.\\n\\ninfantry (cid:19) Soldiers who fight on foot. Traditionally, infantry marched into battle. Mechanised infantry\\nrefers to foot soldiers carried to the battlefield in trucks. In modern armies, infantry is carried into\\nbattle in armoured vehicles, supported by tanks and artillery.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n315\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n316\\n\\nregiment (cid:19) Be careful with this term. Use varies. Find out precisely what is meant in any particular\\ncase. It can be used as a synonym for either a battalion or a brigade. Also, a regiment in the British\\narmy may have one or more battalions but these rarely serve together as or in a brigade. The 1st\\nbattalion of the Royal Halberdiers may be part of an armoured brigade formed for service in the\\nMiddle East while the 2nd battalion of the same regiment is in Scotland.\\n\\nspecial forces (cid:19) Anything from the U.S. Rangers, Russia(cid:25)s Spetsnaz and Britain(cid:25)s Special Air\\nService Regiment to thugs with weapons. So-called special forces have been known to carry out\\nsuch (cid:28)special tasks(cid:29) as ethnic cleansing, i.e. killing civilians. Use with care. Also avoid using the\\nsubjective terms crack and elite.\\n\\nsquadron (cid:19) As with regiment, be careful. Many but not all cavalry (armoured) regiments are broken\\ndown into squadrons and troops. Some air forces are organised on the basis of squadrons (cid:19) each\\nwith several flights (cid:19) and grouped as wings. The term squadron may also refer to a group of ships,\\na small fleet usually put together for some particular task.\\n\\ntask force (cid:19) A force organised for a special operation.\\n\\ntroops (cid:19) Use in the plural for large, round numbers (cid:19) scores, hundreds, thousands (cid:19) of soldiers,\\nnot for small specific numbers. France sent 5,000 troops to the Gulf is right. Guerrillas killed three\\ngovernment troops is wrong. A troop may also be a small unit of armour or guns.\\n\\nWeapons\\n\\nair-to-ground (cid:19) hyphenate. Also anti-aircraft.\\n\\nartillery (cid:19) a weapon that provides indirect fire over long distances. It comprises guns, howitzers,\\nlarge mortars, multiple-rocket launchers, anti-aircraft guns and missiles. Avoid saying (cid:28)big guns(cid:29) or\\n(cid:28)heavy artillery(cid:29) to dramatise events. Some armies use heavy artillery only for guns of a calibre of\\n203mm and up.\\n\\nautomatic weapon -- reloads itself and keeps firing as long as the trigger is pressed. A\\nsemi-automatic reloads itself but the trigger has to be pressed for each shot. Many types of rifle\\noffer the option of automatic fire and semi-automatic. A pistol is not an automatic weapon, but a\\nmachine-pistol is.\\n\\nballistic missile (cid:19) A missile that is initially powered and may be guided but falls under gravity on to\\nits target. It is fired upwards and then comes down. Some missiles, although not many, fly on a flat\\ntrajectory and are therefore not ballistic missiles, e.g. a cruise missile.\\n\\nbullet (cid:19) the projectile fired from a pistol, rifle or machinegun. It is distinguished from the spent\\ncartridge case ejected from the weapon. The entire cartridge comprises cartridge case, priming\\ncharge, propellant and bullet.\\n\\nbunker buster (cid:19) an air-launched, laser-guided U.S. bomb of around 5,000 lb (2,270 kg) used to\\npenetrate hardened concrete structures, often underground.\\n\\ncalibre (cid:19) the calibre of a weapon that fires bullets, or rounds, is the internal diameter of its barrel. It\\nis expressed in millimetres or decimal fractions of an inch, e.g. a 12.7mm machinegun is equivalent\\nto the U.S.-designed .50 calibre machinegun. Other examples: a 155mm howitzer, a 105mm field\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n316\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n317\\n\\ngun, an eight-inch gun, a.22 pistol, a Colt.45, a.38 revolver.\\n\\ncannon (cid:19) A light, fast-firing weapon used to engage aircraft, ground or seaborne targets. It can be\\nmounted in aircraft or on a truck, a tank chassis, a fast patrol boat or as the main armament on an\\narmoured vehicle. It often has more than one barrel, and typically varies in calibre from 20mm up to\\n40mm. Cannon as a synonym for artillery is archaic and should be avoided.\\n\\ncluster bomb (cid:19) Released from the air and contains around 200 bomblets that can penetrate\\narmour or kill anyone stepping on them.\\n\\ncruise missile (cid:19) A missile like the U.S. Tomahawk guided to its target using terrain-mapping radar.\\nIt can be a ground-launched cruise missile (GL-CM) or air-launched (ALCM). They can also be\\nlaunched from ships and submarines. Do not capitalise cruise.\\n\\nDaisy Cutter (cid:19) a large 6,800 kg (15,000 lb) U.S. bomb\\n\\ne-bomb (cid:19) energy pulse bomb. This emits high-power microwave signals intended to cripple enemy\\nelectronics.\\n\\ngun (cid:19) A long-range artillery weapon that fires shells through a rifled barrel over a considerable\\ndistance. A gun may be towed or self-propelled, when it moves under its own power on tracks or\\nwheels, with the crew provided with some degree of armoured protection.\\n\\nhowitzer (cid:19) An artillery piece with a relatively short barrel designed to fire at a high angle over hills\\nor fortifications. It may be towed or it may be self-propelled.\\n\\nICBM (cid:19) Intercontinental ballistic missile with a range of about 3,500 miles.\\n\\nIRBM (cid:19) Intermediate range ballistic missile\\n\\nmachinegun (cid:19) A fully automatic weapon. A light machinegun typically provides a squad or section\\nof soldiers with fire support. Although it is called light it may be heavier than a rifle. An example is\\nthe U.S. 5.56mm M-60. A heavy machinegun is (cid:28)heavy(cid:29) in terms of its calibre, not its weight. It may\\nbe used to provide the main armament on a troop carrier or the secondary armament on a tank. Do\\nnot confuse with a sub-machinegun which is lighter and designed for individual rather than group\\nuse.\\n\\nmachine pistol (cid:19) An old term for a weapon superseded by the sub-machinegun. Use the\\nexpression machine pistol only when a weapon is specifically designated as such by the\\nmanufacturer or armed forces using it.\\n\\nMIRV (cid:19) Multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicle. Each of the warheads carried by this\\nICBM can be aimed at a different target.\\n\\nMOAB (cid:19) Massive Ordnance Air Blast. A 9,750 kg (21,500 lb) bomb known as the (cid:28)Mother of All\\nBombs(cid:29).\\n\\nmortar (cid:19) a mortar fires a bomb, not a shell, from a tube. It is therefore wrong to say mortars\\nexploded at the airport. It is correct to say mortar bombs or mortar rounds did so. The mortar bomb\\nhas fins to stabilise it in flight. It is lobbed at the target, describing a steep parabola and falling\\nalmost vertically. It can strike behind a hill, house or wall, or hit troops in trenches. Small mortars\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n317\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n318\\n\\nare carried by infantry, larger ones may be mounted or towed.\\n\\nmultiple-rocket launcher (cid:19) A number of tubes or racks, usually mounted on a vehicle and capable\\nof firing rockets singly or in salvos.\\n\\nrecoilless rifle (cid:19) An anti-tank weapon. Although largely ineffective against most modern tanks, it is\\nstill widely used by guerrillas or militias in many countries. It looks like a tube, slightly flared at the\\nrear end, is often mounted on wheels and is recoilless in the sense that gases from the weapon(cid:25)s\\ndischarge are allowed to escape from the rear of the weapon. It fires an anti-tank round. Do not\\nconfuse it with a mortar or a howitzer.\\n\\nrifle (cid:19) It has a rifled barrel, imparting spin to the bullet to help give range and stability. The trend is\\ntowards lighter, shorter and smaller calibre rifles. The automatic rifle is the infantry(cid:25)s standard\\nweapon with an effective range of 300 to 1,200 yards. It may be semi-automatic, automatic or both.\\nBolt-action rifles, in which each cartridge is manually placed in the breech using a bolt mechanism,\\nare still used by snipers because of their accuracy, range and reliability.\\n\\nRPG (cid:19) Rocket-propelled grenade.\\n\\nsub-machinegun (cid:19) An automatic weapon with many of the characteristics of a machinegun (cid:19) fully\\nautomatic, a high rate of fire (cid:19) but it is lighter, shorter, of smaller calibre and is designed for the\\nindividual rather than the group. It can be easily concealed. Its small size and light weight make it\\nideal for combat in built-up areas, for guerrilla warfare and for airborne forces. It has a short range,\\nand is less accurate than a rifle or machinegun. Definitions are blurred: a Kalashnikov AK-47 was\\ndesignated a sub-machinegun by the former Soviet armed forces but is known as an assault rifle in\\nthe West.\\n\\nSAM (cid:19) Surface-to-air missile, launched from the surface against an aircraft or another missile.\\n\\nSLBM (cid:19) Ship- or submarine-launched ballistic missile.\\n\\nunconventional weapon (cid:19) Avoid. It is often used by (cid:28)conventional(cid:29) military forces to refer to\\neffective methods or weapons they do not have, do not understand and generally disapprove of.\\nUsing a bamboo spike smeared with excrement may have been unconventional to the U.S. soldier\\nimpaled on it, but it came naturally to a Vietnamese irregular. Depending on who is speaking, the\\nterm (cid:28)unconventional weapons(cid:29) might also mean nuclear, germ or chemical weapons. Be specific.\\n\\nWMD (cid:19) The abbreviation for weapons of mass destruction. Spell out on first reference. Usually\\ntaken to mean biological, chemical and nuclear weapons.\\n\\nmilitate, mitigate\\n\\nMilitate means to have force or influence and is often used in the phrase to militate against. Do not\\nconfuse with mitigate which means to alleviate or to moderate.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n318\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nmillennium, millennia\\n\\nFrom the Latin mille, a thousand, and annus, a year.\\n\\n319\\n\\nmilligram\\n\\nmillion\\n\\nmilquetoast\\n\\nminimal\\n\\nmillimetre, but millimeter in American style\\n\\nUse mm with no space, e.g. 30mm cannon.\\n\\nThe word is spelled out but the abbreviation mln can be used for the sake of brevity in headlines.\\nUse numerals before million, 6 million. Do not go beyond two decimla places.\\n\\nA character easily dominated, not milk toast.\\n\\nThe least possible size or amount. Do not confuse with small or even tiny.\\n\\nminuscule\\n\\nPrefer very small or unimportant.\\n\\nmiracles\\n\\nmischievous, mischievously\\n\\nmob\\n\\nKeep miracles for religious stories. In disaster reports avoid the clich\'c3\'a9: (cid:28)It was a miracle no one\\nwas killed,(cid:29) said a rescue worker.\\n\\nUse this word with care and never of a political protest. The neutral crowd is usually better unless\\nthere is an outbreak of unorganised violence.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n319\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n320\\n\\nUse with care. Often used to describe Islam or Muslims in a particular country, implying a value\\njudgment.\\n\\nUse this form for the Prophet and for anyone else of this name unless we know that he prefers an\\nalternative spelling or an alternative appears in an official title or name for an organisation.\\n\\nmodalities\\n\\nUse means, procedures.\\n\\nmoderate\\n\\nNot Monte Carlo as dateline.\\n\\nMohammad\\n\\nMuhammad\\n\\nUse Mohammad.\\n\\nMonaco\\n\\nmoney\\n\\nNot monies.\\n\\nmoneyed\\n\\nMont Blanc\\n\\nMontessori\\n\\nNot monied, but prefer rich or wealthy.\\n\\nAt 15,771 feet/4,807 metres, this French mountain is the highest in western Europe. But the highest\\nmountain in Europe is Elbrus (18,481 feet/5,633 metres) in the Caucasus.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n320\\n\\n\\x0cmonths\\n\\nMoonie\\n\\nmoot\\n\\nmore than\\n\\nmoribund\\n\\nMormon\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n321\\n\\nAbbreviate to Jan. Feb. Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. and Dec. with a full stop when used with a specific\\ndate, Feb. 12, but spell out in full when used alone or with only the year, February 2002. In datelines\\nmonths are given as follows: Jan, Feb, March, April, May, June, July, Aug, Sept, Oct, Nov, Dec,\\nwithout full stop.\\n\\nA perjorative term for members of the Unification Church of Rev. Sun Myung Moon. We should not\\nuse it in copy and avoid it when possible in direct quotations. See religious terms\\n\\nLittle understood outside the United States. If you use the phrase a moot point in a quote, explain it\\n(cid:19) a debatable point.\\n\\nUse more than with numbers and over with less specific quantities. More than 100 or over half.\\n\\nAbout to die or in a dying state. It does not mean something is weak or stagnant or not growing.\\n\\nA member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints or Mormon Church. Only the (cid:28)L(cid:29) is\\ncapitalised in (cid:28)Latter-day.(cid:29) The church claims eight million members worldwide.\\n\\nMorse code\\n\\nmortuary, not morgue\\n\\nMoslem\\n\\nUse Muslim in all cases.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n321\\n\\n\\x0cmosquito\\n\\nmosquitoes.\\n\\nMother(cid:25)s Day\\n\\nNot Mothers(cid:25) Day.\\n\\nmount\\n\\nmove\\n\\nmove to\\n\\nmpg, mph\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n322\\n\\nmother-in-law, mothers-in-law\\n\\ngive the full name, whether of mountains or communities, e.g. Mount Everest, Mount Vernon.\\n\\nAvoid as a noun. Prefer decision, agreement, or another more precise alternative.\\n\\nThis phrase is often used to give a spurious sense of physical action when in fact the only action\\nhas been verbal, e.g. Clinton moved to head off congressional opposition to his budget plans when\\nhe said.... Avoid it.\\n\\nmiles per gallon, miles per hour (cid:19) both acceptable at second and subsequent references, both\\nlower case and without full stops. Spell out miles per gallon and miles per hour in full on first\\nreference.\\n\\nMs\\n\\nNot used, as also Mr, Mrs, Miss, Master.\\n\\nMuhammad\\n\\nUse Mohammad.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n322\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nmujahideen\\n\\nA term for Islamic guerrilla groups, meaning holy warriors.\\n\\n323\\n\\nA Muslim scholar. Most often used pejoratively to refer to clerics in Iran, although it is a neutral term\\nfor Muslim prayer leaders in Afghanistan. Avoid in Iranian context and never use as shorthand for\\nTehran(cid:25)s religious-political leadership unless quoting somebody.\\n\\nWords starting with multi are not hyphenated (cid:19) multilateral, multinational, multicultural, multilingual\\n\\nNot Bombay, India unless in a proper name.\\n\\nUse this word only of violent deaths that have no political overtones and generally avoid unless\\nthere has been a conviction. Otherwise stick to killing unless the word murder is used in a criminal\\ncharge or trial.\\n\\nif something can go wrong, it will. Avoid, but explain if in a quote.\\n\\nMullah\\n\\nmulti\\n\\nMumbai\\n\\nmurder\\n\\nMurphy\\'s law\\n\\nMuslim\\n\\nNot Moslem.\\n\\nmute\\n\\nMyanmar\\n\\nFormerly Burma.\\n\\nDescribes someone who is physically unable to speak. Do not use dumb. People who have difficulty\\nspeaking are speech impaired.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n323\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n324\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n324\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n325\\n\\nN\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 NAACP\\n2 NAFTA\\n3 names\\n4 Nanjing\\n5 nano-\\n6 naphtha\\n7 NASA\\n8 nation\\n9 National Guard\\n10 national names\\n11 nationalities\\n12 national security adviser\\n13 nationwide\\n14 Native American\\n15 NATO\\n16 naught, nought\\n17 nauseous, nauseated\\n18 nautical mile\\n19 naval, navel\\n20 nave, knave\\n21 navy\\n22 nearby, near by\\n23 negatives\\n24 neither, nor\\n25 NEPAD\\n26 Nepali\\n27 nerve-racking\\n28 Netherlands\\n29 nevertheless\\n30 new\\n31 news conference\\n32 New Year(cid:25)s Eve, New\\nYear(cid:25)s Day\\n33 newspaper titles\\n34 nicknames\\n35 nighttime\\n36 Nissan, Nissen\\n37 Nobel Prize, Nobel Prizes\\n38 noisome, noisy\\n39 no man(cid:25)s land\\n40 no one\\n41 nobility\\n42 non-\\n43 none\\n44 nonetheless\\n45 Nordic countries\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n325\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n326\\n\\nNational Association for the Advancement of Colored Peoples (U.S.)\\n\\nNorth American Free Trade Agreement. A trade pact between the United States, Mexico and\\nCanada.\\n\\nSee personal names, proper names, courtesty titles, nobility, religious titles, royalty.\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 normalcy\\n47 Northern Ireland\\n48 notable\\n49 noted\\n50 now\\n51 nowadays\\n52 nuclear power\\n53 numbers\\n54 numerous\\n55 numskull\\n\\nNAACP\\n\\nNAFTA\\n\\nnames\\n\\nnano-\\n\\nnaphtha\\n\\nNot naptha.\\n\\nNASA\\n\\nNanjing\\n\\nNot Nanking, China.\\n\\nPrefix for one-billionth of a unit.\\n\\nNational Aeronautics and Space Administration (U.S.). At first reference a form like the U.S. space\\nagency NASA is acceptable. See www.nasa.gov\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n326\\n\\n\\x0cnation\\n\\nNational Guard\\n\\nnational names\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n327\\n\\nDo not write the nation(cid:25)s when you are referring to a specific country. Be specific (cid:19) Britain(cid:25)s largest\\nairport or Germany(cid:25)s largest airport. The nation(cid:25)s capital is an American clich\'c3\'a9 for Washington.\\nWe should use the U.S. capital.\\n\\nStories from the United States filed to the rest of the world should explain that this is a militia force.\\nIn American style, capitalize for U.S. or state forces, the National Guard, Kansas National Guard.\\nLower case for the national guards of other countries.\\n\\nYou need not specify a minister(cid:25)s nationality in the first paragraph of a story that names the country\\nand comes from a dateline in that country. Under a Washington dateline, for example, write:\\nSecretary of State Joan Smith said on Friday the United States would... not U.S. Secretary of State\\nJoan Smith said on Friday the United States would ... There is likewise no need to specify the\\nnationality of groups that obviously are of the nationality of the country datelined. Under an Athens\\ndateline it is Police arrested not Greek police arrested.\\n\\nnationalities\\n\\nNationalities are written out in full and not abbreviated in stories and in sports results. The only\\nexception is U.S. for United States. Use Britain and British (not United Kingdom or Great Britain).\\nUse The Netherlands (not Holland) and Taiwan (not Chinese Taipei). Distinguish between North\\nand South Korea.\\n\\nnational security adviser\\n\\nNot an official title: lower case.\\n\\nnationwide\\n\\nNative American\\n\\nRarely necessary in the phrase nationwide broadcast. If a head of state or government goes on\\ntelevision or radio we can assume the broadcast is nationwide. Specify if it is not.\\n\\nThe preferred term, bearing in mind that it includes e.g. Inuit who are not Indians. American Indian\\nis acceptable. Where possible, be more specific and give the name of the tribe (eg. Navajo,\\nCherokee). See race\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n327\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n328\\n\\nNATO\\n\\nNorth Atlantic Treaty Organization (Brussels), the Western military alliance founded in 1949. The\\ninitials may be used by themselves at first reference with the full name given lower in the story.\\nwww.nato.int\\n\\nnaught, nought\\n\\nYou come to naught, or set a naught. Nought is the number zero.\\n\\nnauseous, nauseated\\n\\nNauseous is the same as nauseant, producing nausea. Nauseated is sickened. Only very\\nobjectionable people are nauseous. Ordinary people are much more likely to be nauseated.\\n\\n1,852 metres or 1.1515 statute miles. Do not convert the nautical mile used for fishing limits, by\\nships when reporting distances at sea and by NASA and others reporting space shots. If using\\nnautical miles in space stories, make this clear in text. See also knot.\\n\\nNaval is pertaining to warships or a navy. Navel belongs to the centre of the abdomen.\\n\\nNave is the main part of a church. A knave is a false, deceitful person.\\n\\nnautical mile\\n\\nnaval, navel\\n\\nnave, knave\\n\\nnavy\\n\\nInternational style is to capitalise if the word appears in the formal title, the British Navy or the Royal\\nNavy, otherwise lower case. In American style, capitalise for U.S. Navy, lower case for other navies.\\n\\nnearby, near by\\n\\nNearby is an adjective, the nearby town. Near by is an adverb. We stayed near by.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n328\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nnegatives\\n\\n329\\n\\nThese can be troublesome, for instance if the word not is dropped in a sentence or mutilated to\\nnow. Try to avoid using not where other forms can be found, e.g.: decided against rather than\\ndecided not to & unnecessary rather than not necessary & declined to comment rather than would\\nnot comment. Try to avoid officialese euphemisms containing the word negative, e.g. negative\\ngrowth is shrinking.\\n\\nCan govern only two elements e.g. Neither Norway nor Sweden voted. Do not write Neither Norway,\\nSweden nor Denmark voted. If both elements are singular use a singular verb, e.g. Neither France\\nnor Germany welcomes the prospect. If one element is singular and one plural then the verb agrees\\nwith the noun nearest to it. e.g. Neither the players nor the referee is fit. Neither Joe nor his parents\\nwere able to come. Always use neither ... nor& Do not use neither&or. Always use not ... or. Do not\\nuse not&nor.\\n\\nNew Partnership for Africa(cid:25)s Development (Midrand, South Africa). An agency reporting to African\\nUnion leaders with the mission to strengthen Africa(cid:25)s political and economic governance and\\nmobilise external and African financial resources for the continent(cid:25)s development. See\\nwww.nepad.org\\n\\nneither, nor\\n\\nNEPAD\\n\\nNepali\\n\\nNot Nepalese as adjective.\\n\\nnerve-racking\\n\\nNetherlands\\n\\nnevertheless\\n\\nnew\\n\\nIn text write the Netherlands, in datelines omit the article, e.g. ARNHEM, Netherlands, May 16 ...\\n\\nCan often be omitted. Companies often announce that they will build a new plant. New is\\nsuperfluous since, by definition, any plant being built must be new.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n329\\n\\n\\x0c330\\n\\nWhatever the masthead says do not capitalise articles and particles in the names of\\nEnglish-language newspapers and magazines, e.g. the New York Times, the News of the World.\\nThe names of some non-English language newspapers begin with a word meaning the. In such\\ncases write the newspaper O Globo/Le Monde/Die Welt not the O Globo/Le Monde/Die Welt\\nnewspaper.\\n\\nUse a nickname instead of a given name if that is the preference of the individual concerned, e.g.\\nTiger Woods.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nnews conference\\n\\nPreferred to press conference.\\n\\nNew Year(cid:25)s Eve, New Year(cid:25)s Day\\n\\nBut good luck in the new year.\\n\\nnewspaper titles\\n\\nnicknames\\n\\nnighttime\\n\\nNissan, Nissen\\n\\nNissan cars, Nissen hut.\\n\\nNobel Prize, Nobel Prizes\\n\\nnoisome, noisy\\n\\nno man(cid:25)s land\\n\\nNot no-man(cid:25)s-land.\\n\\nNoisome is disgusting to the sight or smell. Do not confuse with noisy, which offends the hearing.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n330\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n331\\n\\nno one\\n\\nNot noone or no-one.\\n\\nnobility\\n\\nHereditary British nobility consists, in descending order of precedence, of dukes, marquises, earls,\\nviscounts and barons. A few women are hereditary countesses or baronesses in their own right. Life\\npeers, whose titles die with them, are also barons. If a well-known person is made a life peer or\\npeeress, you may use their given names at first reference: Lord David Owen and Owen in\\nsubsequent references.\\n\\nThe nobility are known collectively as peers (and peeresses), not lords, although the upper house of\\nParliament is the House of Lords. Dukes get their full title at first reference, e.g. the Duke of Norfolk;\\nsecond reference Norfolk or the duke. Never Lord Norfolk. His wife is the Duchess of Norfolk, the\\nduchess, never Lady Norfolk.\\n\\nRefer to all other peers simply as Lord So-and-So, whatever their precise title, and to their wives as\\nLady So-and-So. But more formal titles may also be used if desired, e.g. the Marquis of Zetland,\\nEarl Cawdor, Viscount Boyd. Barons, whether hereditary or life peers, are always Lord So-and-So.\\nAt second reference simply So-and-So, Zetland, Cawdor, Boyd.\\n\\nHereditary or life peers, are always Lord So-and-So. At second reference simply So-and-So,\\nZetland, Cawdor, Boyd. The wife of an earl is a countess, of a viscount a viscountess and of a\\nmarquis a marchioness. The children of dukes and marquises and the daughters of earls have the\\ncourtesy title of lord or lady before their first names. Do not use the Honorable or the Hon. before\\nthe names of the untitled sons of peers.\\n\\nBaronets (whose titles are hereditary) and knights (whose titles die with them) are known as Sir,\\ne.g. Sir Reginald Barnett. At second reference Barnett. However if you had to distinguish between\\nhim and his wife, use Sir Reginald and Lady Barnett respectively. If he is a government minister the\\npreferred style is Sir Reginald Barnett, British health minister, not British Health Minister Sir\\nReginald Barnett. His wife would be Lady Barnett, whether he was a baronet or a knight.\\n\\nA dame, equivalent to a knight, is a woman honoured in her own right. At first reference Dame Judi\\nDench, then Dench.\\n\\nIf the first element of a word is the negative non-, hyphenate, e.g. a non-aggression pact. But\\nnonconformist.\\n\\nnon-\\n\\nnone\\n\\nThis may take either a singular or plural verb.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n331\\n\\n\\x0c332\\n\\nDenmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Scandinavia comprises only Denmark, Norway\\nand Sweden. Because of the danger of confusion, list the countries even if you use Nordic or\\nScandinavia in a lead for the sake of brevity.\\n\\nNorthern is always upper case. Never use Ulster except when quoting someone. The Irish\\nRepublican Army, which fought for years to oust Britain from Northern Ireland with an ultimate aim\\nof reunifying the island of Ireland, may be referred to by its initials alone at first reference. It should\\nnot be described as a Catholic group. Describe Sinn Fein as the political ally of the IRA. Avoid the\\nword paramilitary and use guerrillas, gunmen or bombers, depending on context. Do not use the\\nword loyalists for Protestant guerrillas unless quoting someone.\\n\\nYou can note only established facts, not claims or opinions. Avoid the word.\\n\\nA strong and simple word that should always replace flabby phrases such as at the present time\\nand at this time.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nnonetheless\\n\\nNordic countries\\n\\nnormalcy\\n\\nUse normality.\\n\\nNorthern Ireland\\n\\nnotable\\n\\nNot noteable.\\n\\nnoted\\n\\nnow\\n\\nnowadays\\n\\nnuclear power\\n\\nSome frequently used terms:\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n332\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n333\\n\\nbecquerel -- Unit of radiation. Because a becquerel is very small, measurements may be in trillions\\nof becquerels. If the term tera becquerel is used, say it means trillions.\\n\\ncriticality -- Point at which a nuclear chain reaction becomes self-sustaining, producing a steady\\npower output.\\n\\ncurie -- Unit measuring the rate at which substances lose radioactivity, or the number of\\ndisintegrations per second.\\n\\nfission -- Process in which the nucleus of an atom is split in the core of a nuclear reactor. Other\\natoms are split in a chain reaction, releasing large amounts of energy. (The same process as in\\natomic bombs.) The rate of fission is controlled in a power plant by rods pushed into the core of the\\nreactor, avoiding a runaway chain reaction. Fission increases when the control rods are raised, and\\nthe reactor shuts down when they are pushed in fully. The fuel is uranium. Heat created by fission is\\nused to produce steam which drives turbo-generators.\\n\\nfusion -- Brings atoms together and fuses their nuclei at high temperature to form a single large\\nnucleus, releasing large amounts of energy. The process used in the H-bomb.\\n\\nhalf-life -- The time it takes for half of a radioactive material to decay, or lose its radioactivity.\\n\\nmeltdown -- When a nuclear reactor(cid:25)s core gets so overheated that the fuel melts, raising the\\npossibility of a leakage of radiation.\\n\\nplutonium -- An artificial metallic element formed from uranium and used as fuel in fast-breeder\\nreactors. It forms as the isotope plutonium-239 but disintegrates to become uranium-235.\\n\\nrad -- Unit that measures absorbed radiation.\\n\\nradiation, radioactivity -- Radiation is energy emitted in the form of waves or particles when\\natomic nuclei disintegrate. Radioactivity is emitted in alpha, beta or gamma rays (the most\\ndangerous) and neutrons. Measured by a Geiger counter. rem (roentgen equivalent man).\\nMeasurement of radiation absorbed by humans. An X-ray produces six or seven millirems.\\n\\nroentgen -- Measurement of the radiation from X-rays or gamma rays.\\n\\nsievert -- Measures dose of radiation absorbed by humans. One sievert is 100 rems.\\n\\nuranium -- A radioactive metal. It is enriched by rapid spinning that separates uranium-235, the fuel\\nfor nuclear reactors, from uranium-238 (used to make plutonium).\\n\\nnumbers\\n\\nSee figures, fractions.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n333\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n334\\n\\nnumerous\\n\\nmany is shorter, better.\\n\\nnumskull\\n\\nNot numbskull.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n334\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n335\\n\\nO\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 OAPEC\\n2 OAS\\n3 oasis, oases\\n4 OAU\\n5 obscenities\\n6 obsolescent, obsolete\\n7 occur, occurring,\\noccurred\\n8 ocean\\n9 octopuses\\n10 OECD\\n11 of/of the\\n12 Off-spinner\\n13 official titles\\n14 officials\\n15 OIC\\n16 oil barrels\\n17 oilfield\\n18 oil statistics\\n19 oil strikes\\n20 OK\\n21 old-time, old-timer, old\\ntimes\\n22 oligopoly\\n23 Olympiad\\n24 on behalf of\\n25 on to\\n26 one word or two\\n27 ongoing\\n28 online\\n29 only\\n30 OPEC\\n31 opera titles\\n32 opinion polls\\n33 optimum\\n34 ordnance, ordinance\\n35 organisations and\\ninstitutions\\n36 orient\\n37 Orthodox Church\\n38 Osama bin Laden\\n39 Oscars\\n40 others\\n41 Ottawa\\n42 ounce\\n43 ouster\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n335\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n336\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n44 out of court,\\nout-of-court\\n45 outpatient\\n46 outside\\n47 Oval Office\\n48 over\\n49 overweening\\n50 oxford blue\\n51 oxymoron\\n\\nOAPEC\\n\\nOAS\\n\\noasis, oases\\n\\nOAU\\n\\nobscenities\\n\\nOrganization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (Kuwait). Note the z in Organization. Set up in\\n1968. Aims to improve economic co-operation in the petroleum industry. Members are Algeria,\\nBahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, and the United Arab Emirates. The\\ngroup does not as a rule make decisions on oil output or pricing. See www.oapecorg.org\\n\\nOrganization of American States (Washington). It has 35 active members representing all countries\\nin the Americas except Cuba, which was effectively expelled in 1962 but is still listed as a\\nnon-active member. See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.oas.org/n/nOrganisation"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 http://www.oas.org\\n\\nOrganisation}} of African Unity (Addis Ababa). Superseded by African Union.\\n\\nUse them only if they are in direct quotes and if the story would be seriously weakened by their\\nomission. Obscenities, if retained, must not be euphemised or emasculated by the use of dots. In\\ngeneral we should not quote mindless obscenities from the person in the street or, say, an athlete or\\nsoldier but should consider using them if people prominent in public life use them in a context that\\ngives their remarks great emphasis or throws in question their fitness to hold office.\\n\\nobsolescent, obsolete\\n\\nIf something is obsolescent it is on the way to becoming obsolete.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n336\\n\\n\\x0cocean\\n\\noctopuses\\n\\nNot octopi.\\n\\nOECD\\n\\nof/of the\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\noccur, occurring, occurred\\n\\n337\\n\\nLower case when used alone or in plurals, e.g. Indian and Pacific oceans. Upper case in Antarctic\\nOcean, Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Pacific Ocean.\\n\\nOrganisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD itself uses a hyphen in its formal\\nname) in Paris. Established in 1961 as the successor to Marshall Plan which brought aid to Europe\\nafter World War Two. Took on a global role promoting growth and trade in wealthy member states.\\nIt gives economic advice to members and non-members. See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.oecd.org/n/nCan"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 http://www.oecd.org\\n\\nCan}} often be excised. The centre of the town becomes the town centre.\\n\\nOff-spinner\\n\\nHyphenated for bowler in cricket.\\n\\nofficial titles\\n\\nBe restrained in using idiomatic phrases to describe officials or official bodies rather than their\\nofficial titles, e.g. planning overlord, watchdog commission. Such terms are often necessary in lead\\nparagraphs where use of the full title would be clumsy, but the official title must be given in the body\\nof the story. Do not use idioms with pejorative overtones like trade union boss.\\n\\nDo not describe government ministers as officials.\\n\\nofficials\\n\\nOIC\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n337\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n338\\n\\nOrganisation of the Islamic Conference, the principal world organisation of Muslim states, with 57\\nmembers. It is funded mainly by Saudi Arabia and based in Jeddah. Among OIC institutions is the\\nIslamic Development Bank which provides soft loans for development projects in Islamic countries.\\nSee www.oic-oci.org\\n\\noil barrels\\n\\nA barrel of oil is equivalent to 35 Imperial or 42 U.S. gallons or 159 litres or 0.159 cubic metres. To\\nconvert cubic metres or kilolitres (1,000 litres) to barrels multiply by 6.29. Japan often quotes oil\\nstatistics in terms of kilolitres. The conversion from barrels (volume) to metric tonnes (weight)\\ndepends on the specific gravity, or density, of the oil. The lighter the oil, the more barrels per tonne.\\nTo convert Brent crude from barrels to tonnes multiply by 7.57, to convert tonnes to barrels multiply\\nby 0.132. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) has 7.62 barrels per tonne. For Russian Urals crude,\\nusually expressed in tonnes, multiply by 7.33. Refined petroleum product conversions also vary\\naccording to specific gravity. As a rule use 8.6 barrels to a tonne of gasoline, 7.9 barrels per tonne\\nof jet/kerosene, 7.59 barrels per tonne of heating oil, 7.4 barrels per tonne of diesel and 6.4 barrels\\nper tonne of residual fuel oil.\\n\\noilfield\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\noil statistics\\n\\noil strikes\\n\\nOK\\n\\nOil production and export figures are usually expressed in terms of barrels per day (bpd) although\\nthey are sometimes quoted also in tonnes per year. Standardise on bpd figures, normally giving\\nthem as a bracketed conversion after any figure expressed in tonnes per year. When converting\\nfrom tonnes per year to bpd don(cid:25)t forget to divide the barrel figure by 365 for the daily rate. As with\\nall conversions, give an approximate conversion of an approximate figure and do not convert to\\nmore decimal places than are given in the original figure.\\n\\nIt is not correct to report the discovery of a new oil well. Nature does not provide ready-made oil\\nwells awaiting discovery.\\n\\nNot okay. Try to avoid in alerts and headlines. Do not use in text of stories unless you are quoting\\nsomeone.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n338\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nold-time, old-timer, old times\\n\\n339\\n\\nA situation where a few firms selling an item control its supply and hence influence its price.\\n\\nUse only to mean the period of four years between two Olympic Games.\\n\\nUse by unless you really do mean acting as a representative of or in the interests of.\\n\\noligopoly\\n\\nOlympiad\\n\\non behalf of\\n\\non to\\n\\nTwo words. Into (cid:19) one word.\\n\\none word or two\\n\\nContemporary usage is to prefer one word, with hyphenated words becoming increasingly rare.\\nHowever, common sense applies. Use a hyphen if it helps to clarify. We should avoid double\\nconsonants, double vowels or using double letters if they detract from clarity or are difficult to read\\neg. Profit-taking is more readable than profittaking. As a general rule, words with "pre-" and "post-"\\nprefixes should be one word. Click here for further guidance on hyphenation and prefixes.\\n\\nUsually tautological as in the ongoing crisis. If you need such a word use continuing.\\n\\nOne word for computer connections and the Internet.\\n\\nongoing\\n\\nonline\\n\\nonly\\n\\nAs a rule only should go immediately before the word or phrase it qualifies. Only SAS flies to the\\nFaroes on Sunday means that on a Sunday SAS is the only airline operating to the islands. SAS\\nflies only to the Faroes on Sunday means that on Sunday the only SAS flight operating is to the\\nislands. SAS flies to the Faroes only on Sunday means that the airline has only one flight a week to\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n339\\n\\n\\x0cthe islands.\\n\\nOPEC\\n\\nopera titles\\n\\nSee capitalisation.\\n\\nopinion polls\\n\\noptimum\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n340\\n\\nOrganization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (note definite article and z in Organization). The\\nacronym OPEC can be used at first reference if desired, preferably with a descriptive tag. The title\\nshould be given in full at the second reference. Do not use the acronym in brackets immediately\\nafter the full reference because it is self-explanatory. It is permissible to refer to OPEC as a cartel\\nbecause it controls more than 50 percent of world crude trade. OPEC(cid:25)s self-imposed output limit is\\nmade up of individual member country supply quotas. Do not say (cid:28)the OPEC quota(cid:29) (singular) to\\ndescribe the cartel(cid:25)s overall output limit. Use output (or supply or production) ceiling or limit. OPEC\\nmembers are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi\\nArabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. See www.opec.org\\n\\nA story based on the results of an opinion poll should include, as a minimum, the name of the\\norganiser, who published it, the size of the sample, and how and where it was carried out. If\\navailable, the margin of error should be given, as well as the survey\\'s history - is it carried out on a\\nregular basis? Do not write stories based on Internet polls, unless they are conducted by a\\nreputable polling organisation. These can be easily manipulated and may be unreliable. For\\ntechnical reasons, avoid the word poll in the headline, which should be reserved for polls\\ncommissioned by Reuters itself.\\n\\nOptimum is not a simple superlative which can replace biggest, best or largest. It means the best for\\nthe achievement of an aim or result, or the point when any condition is most favourable.\\n\\nordnance, ordinance\\n\\nordnance is artillery, ordinance a decree.\\n\\norganisations and institutions\\n\\nUse the name style that appears on their official websites.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n340\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n341\\n\\nPrefer to orientate. When using to refer to the Far East, capitalise: Oriental cuisine.\\n\\nEastern Rite Churches returned to communion with Rome after the 1054 East-West split between\\nRome and Orthodoxy but worship in an Eastern, usually Orthodox rite. Each returned to unity with\\nRome at a different time in the past 900 years or so.\\n\\nUse bin Laden at second reference. He has sbeen stripped of Saudi citizenship so refer to as\\nSaudi-born.\\n\\nThe statuettes presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Also\\nknown as the Academy Awards.\\n\\nBeware of this word when reporting such things as casualties. It is usually unnecessary, as in 50\\npeople were killed and 200 others injured.\\n\\norient\\n\\nOrthodox Church\\n\\nOsama bin Laden\\n\\nOscars\\n\\nothers\\n\\nOttawa\\n\\nounce\\n\\nouster\\n\\nTo convert to grams roughly multiply by 30, precisely multiply by 28.35. Dry ounce = 28.35 grams,\\nounce troy = 31.10 grams. Liquid or fluid ounce: UK = 28.4millilitres (20 fluid ounces = 1 pint); US =\\n29.6 millilitres (16 liquid ounces = 1 liquid pint).\\n\\nExcept in a legal context the word is ousting. Dismissal or overthrow is better.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n341\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nout of court, out-of-court\\n\\n342\\n\\nThey reached an out-of-court settlement and she was paid out of court.\\n\\noutpatient\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\noutside\\n\\nNever outside of.\\n\\nOval Office\\n\\nover\\n\\noverweening\\n\\noxford blue\\n\\noxymoron\\n\\nWhite House office of the president.\\n\\nUse \\'more than\\' with numbers. More than 100 rather than over 100. This is often used instead of\\n\\'because of\\' or \\'about\\': Workers are striking over pay. Keep \\'over\\' for place -- over the moon.\\n\\nAs a colour, lower case. But if an athlete has represented the University, then Oxford Blue.\\n\\nA figure of speech which deliberately combines opposites, such as bitter-sweet, living dead.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n342\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n343\\n\\nP\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 paedophile, pederast\\n2 pail, pale\\n3 palate, palette, pallet\\n4 Palestine Liberation Organisaton\\n5 pan\\n6 panacea\\n7 Panchen Lama\\n8 Panjsher\\n9 Pap smear\\n10 papal nuncio\\n11 paparazzo, paparazzi\\n12 parallel, paralleling, paralleled\\n13 paraplegia\\n14 Paris Club\\n15 Parkinson\\'s disease\\n16 parliament\\n17 parliamentarian\\n18 part time, part-time\\n19 partial, or broken quote\\n20 participate\\n21 participles\\n22 partner\\n23 Pashtun\\n24 passer-by, passers-by\\n25 past, last\\n26 passive\\n27 patrol, patrolling, patrolled\\n28 payroll\\n29 peach Melba\\n30 peal, peel\\n31 pedal, peddle\\n32 peer\\n33 pejorative\\n34 peninsular\\n35 per\\n36 percent\\n37 percentage\\n38 perceptible\\n39 perfect\\n40 period close quote\\n41 period of time\\n42 perk\\n43 Persian\\n44 Persian Gulf\\n45 person, people\\n46 personal, personally, personnel\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n343\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n344\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 personal names\\n48 persuade, convince\\n49 petrol bomb\\n50 Petrodollar\\n51 PGA\\n52 phase, faze\\n53 phenomenon\\n54 phoney\\n55 phosphorus\\n56 picket, picketed, picket line\\n57 picnic, picnicking, picknicked,\\npicknicker\\n58 pidgin English\\n59 pigeonhole\\n60 pilots\\n61 pileup\\n62 PIN\\n63 pious\\n64 plan ahead\\n65 plane\\n66 planets\\n67 plea bargain\\n68 plead, pleading, pleaded\\n69 pled\\n70 PLO\\n71 plough, but American style plow\\n72 plummet\\n73 plurality\\n74 p.m.\\n75 podcast\\n76 podium\\n77 poems\\n78 point-blank\\n79 pointed out\\n80 police\\n81 policymakers\\n82 Polisario Front\\n83 political parties\\n84 politicking\\n85 Polynesia\\n86 pooh-pooh\\n87 Poona\\n88 Pope\\n89 populace\\n90 pore\\n91 port, starboard\\n92 Portuguese names\\n93 posh\\n94 positive\\n95 postmarket\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n344\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n345\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n96 post mortem\\n97 postpone\\n98 postwar\\n99 potato, potatoes\\n100 pound\\n101 pound sign\\n102 pour, pore\\n103 practice, practise\\n104 pre-\\n105 precautionary measure\\n106 precondition\\n107 pre-dawn\\n108 predominant, predominantly\\n109 predilection\\n110 prefixes\\n111 premarket\\n112 premier\\n113 premiere\\n114 premier league\\n115 premise, premises\\n116 pre-owned\\n117 preplanned\\n118 prepositional phrases\\n119 prescribe\\n120 presently\\n121 President\\n122 Presidents Day\\n123 presidency\\n124 press conference\\n125 press reports\\n126 pressurise\\n127 prestigious\\n128 pretax\\n129 pretence, pretext\\n130 pretension, pretentious\\n131 prevaricate, procrastinate\\n132 prime minister\\n133 prime rate\\n134 primeval\\n135 principal, principle\\n136 prior to\\n137 prise apart, not prize.\\n138 prison officers\\n139 prisoner of war, prisoners of war\\n140 pristine\\n141 prize money\\n142 private equity firm\\n143 privilege, privileged\\n144 proactive\\n145 process\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n345\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n346\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n146 Procter and Gamble\\n147 proffer, proffered\\n148 profit\\n149 profit-sharing\\n150 profit-taking\\n151 prognosis\\n152 program\\n153 pro-life\\n154 prone, supine\\n155 pronouns\\n156 pronunciation\\n157 propeller\\n158 proper names\\n159 prophecy, prophesy\\n160 proscribe, prescribe\\n161 prostate, prostrate\\n162 protest\\n163 protester\\n164 prototype\\n165 proven\\n166 proverbial\\n167 provost marshal, provost\\nmarshals\\n168 public school\\n169 publications\\n170 publicly\\n171 pull back, pullback\\n172 pull out, pullout\\n173 punctuation\\n174 Pune\\n175 punter\\n176 purchase\\n177 push up, push-up\\n178 pygmy\\n179 Pyrrhic victory\\n\\npaedophile, pederast\\n\\nA paedophile sexually desires children. A pederast has sexual relations with a boy.\\n\\npail, pale\\n\\nPail is a small bucket. Pale is wan or light in colour.\\n\\npalate, palette, pallet\\n\\nPalate is a sense of taste or part of the mouth. An artist mixes his paints on a palette, and a pallet is\\na mattress or small bed.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n346\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nPalestine Liberation Organisaton\\n\\n347\\n\\nNot Palestinian. PLO is acceptable on first reference and spell out in a subsequent reference.\\n\\npan\\n\\nThe prefix does not usually take a hyphen. For example (cid:19) panacea, panoply, pantheism. But\\nPan-American -- hyphenated when referring to the North, Central and South America region, but not\\nin the official title of the Pan America Games. Also pan-African and pan-European.\\n\\npanacea\\n\\nA universal medicine or cure.\\n\\nPanchen Lama\\n\\nSee Dalai Lama, Tibet.\\n\\nPanjsher\\n\\nNot Panjshar or Panjshir, Afghanistan.\\n\\nPap smear\\n\\npapal nuncio\\n\\npaparazzo, paparazzi\\n\\nparallel, paralleling, paralleled\\n\\nCapitalise Pap. A smear test for cancer devised by George Papanicolaou.\\n\\nThe Holy See(cid:25)s ambassadors around the world are known as papal nuncios and its embassies as\\nnunciatures. If the Holy See does not have formal diplomatic relations with a country the Pope(cid:25)s\\nenvoy to the church in that country is an apostolic delegate.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n347\\n\\n\\x0cThe total or partial paralysis of both legs. Quadriplegia is the paralysis of all four limbs.\\n\\n348\\n\\nAn informal body of 19 creditor nations plus occasional others. It has met in Paris under the\\nchairmanship of the French Treasury since 1956 to help indebted countries reorganise their\\nfinances. It treats debt only for those countries with support agreements with the IMF and does so\\non the condition that other lenders give comparable terms. See also loans, London Club.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nparaplegia\\n\\nParis Club\\n\\nParkinson\\'s disease\\n\\nparliament\\n\\nAs a general rule refer to legislative assemblies initially as parliaments, regardless of their formal\\nnames. These can be given lower in the story, e.g. Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament ...\\nReplying to questions in the House of Commons, he said ... In American style, capitalise when the\\nname of a formal body, e.g. The British Parliament.\\n\\nparliamentarian\\n\\nMember of parliament preferable, although parliamentarian is becoming more widely accepted.\\n\\npart time, part-time\\n\\nTwo words for the verb, one word for the adjective.\\n\\npartial, or broken quote\\n\\nTry to avoid unless the fragment is vital to understanding the importance of meaning.\\n\\nparticipate\\n\\nUse take part.\\n\\nparticiples\\n\\nThere are cases in which an unattached participle is acceptable, e.g. Considering the risks involved,\\nyou were right to cancel the trip. Although it is not you who is considering the risks but the writer of\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n348\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n349\\n\\nthe sentence, the sense is clear. But avoid the unattached participle when it makes the sentence\\nabsurd, e.g.: Having disarmed, Ruritania(cid:25)s allies guaranteed its defence. Here the participle having\\ndisarmed is wrongly attached to the allies when in fact it is Ruritania that has disarmed. Fetching\\nanything between $16,000 and $40,000, onIy about 2,500 women around the world can afford to\\nbuy haute couture dresses. The juxtaposition of fetching and women suggests it is the women not\\nthe dresses who are worth $16,000.\\n\\nPrefer boyfriend, girlfriend or lover.\\n\\npartner\\n\\nPashtun\\n\\npasser-by, passers-by\\n\\npast, last\\n\\nNot Pushtun, Pushtoon, Pathan. This tribe in Pakistan(cid:25)s Northwest Frontier Province and areas of\\nAfghanistan speaks Pashto, also one of the main languages of Afghanistan.\\n\\nUsually we mean last when we write past. Last refers to the time up to the present. Past is vaguer.\\nJoe Smith has been injured for the last three games not for the past three games, but Eva Petite\\nrelived past glories. Also, check for redundancy in phrases such as past history, past record, past\\nachievements.\\n\\npassive\\n\\nAvoid the passive voice. It is longer and clumsier than the active voice and often confuses the\\nreader. Write Police arrested five armed men rather than Five armed men were arrested by police.\\nThe active voice allows you to push on with the rest of the story. Police arrested five armed men\\nwho had stormed a bank in central Paris. If you write Five armed men, who had taken over a bank\\nin central Paris, were arrested by police& you ask readers to retain a great deal of information\\nbefore they know fully who did what to whom. The passive voice is unavoidable when the subject of\\nan action is the main point of the story. President Jane Flow was shot and killed by... is better than\\nA gunman shot and killed President Jane Flow.\\n\\npatrol, patrolling, patrolled\\n\\npayroll\\n\\nOne word ("non-farm payrolls" -- U.S.).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n349\\n\\n\\x0cpeach Melba\\n\\npeal, peel\\n\\nPeal of bells, orange peel.\\n\\npedal, peddle\\n\\npeer\\n\\nAn equal.\\n\\npejorative\\n\\npeninsular\\n\\nper\\n\\npercent\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n350\\n\\nYou pedal a bicycle but peddle your wares. A pedaller rides a bicycle, a pedlar sells goods, or\\npeddles door to door. But use the form drug peddler.\\n\\nThis is the adjective. The noun is peninsula. The Peninsular War was fought on the peninsula.\\n\\nAvoid the Latin. Six dollars each rather than six dollers per item.\\n\\nOne word, but the abbreviation pct is acceptable in alerts and headlines. Use numerals before\\npercent, 4 percent, 6 percent etc. Use percent after both numbers when writing about a change,\\nrose to 5 percent from 4 percent, not rose to 5 from 4 percent. Do not confuse percentage with\\npercentage points. If a bank rate rises from one percent to two percent it is a rise of one percentage\\npoint and an increase of 100 percent not one percent. Note that a 100 percent increase is twice the\\noriginal figure, 200 percent three times, 300 percent four times, etc. It is a common error to write, for\\ninstance, that a 400 percent rise means a quadrupling; in fact it means a fivefold increase. To\\ncalculate percentages divide the first figure by the second and multiply by 100. For example 70 as a\\npercentage of 350 is: 70/350 x 100 = 20 percent. Use a calculator for complicated figures and\\nexpress the result to the nearest two decimal places, e.g. 75 expressed as a percentage of 350 is\\n21.42857142 or 21.43 percent. Always use decimals not fractions in percentages.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n350\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npercentage\\n\\nWrite many or most rather than a large percentage of.\\n\\n351\\n\\nDo not write more perfect or less perfect because things are either perfect or they are not. You can\\nuse less than perfect.\\n\\nperiod close quote\\n\\nPeriods (full points, full stops) always go inside quotation marks.\\n\\nperiod of time\\n\\nUse one word or the other, not both together.\\n\\nShortened form of perquisite. Explain as a fringe benefit.\\n\\nGeneric name for the language spoken in Iran, Tajikistan and northern Afghanistan. It is also known\\nlocally as Farsi in Iran, Tajik in Tajikistan and Dari in Afghanistan, but Persian is the preferred\\noverall name.\\n\\nperceptible\\n\\nperfect\\n\\nperk\\n\\nPersian\\n\\nPersian Gulf\\n\\nUse Gulf\\n\\nperson, people\\n\\nPerson singular and people plural. Do not use persons.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n351\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npersonal, personally, personnel\\n\\n352\\n\\nPersonal or personally, meaning private or individual, is almost always unnecessary, e.g. He\\npersonally took his personal belongings. For personnel use people, staff or workers.\\n\\npersonal names\\n\\nCheck names, and then check them again, and then check them again. Never presume you know\\nhow to spell a name, no matter how common and how familiar it may seem. Is it Smith, or Smyth or\\nSmythe or Smif? Use a given name and surname when first identifying people, and the surname\\nalone on second reference. Only if a given name is not available or if it is known that an individual\\nprefers to be identified by his initials (e.g. Former South African President F.W. de Klerk) should you\\nuse initials. First names that look unfamiliar or odd to English-speaking readers need no special\\ntreatment but first names that look like misprints of familiar names, such as Joh or Jame or Arturk\\nmay call for repetition at first reference, e.g. Joh (repeat Joh) Bjelke-Petersen. Do not write Joh\\n(ed:correct) Bjelke-Petersen. Be careful with e.g. Evan/Ewan, Michel/Michael. Sports stories and\\nresults follow the same rule. Use given name and surname at first reference and the surname alone\\nfor subsequent references. To help readers not familiar with names, use a he/she or his/her at\\nsecond reference to make clear the gender of someone whose name could be of either sex or\\nwhose name is not readily known to a non-native, e.g. Clare, Hilary. If you see a story with the same\\nname spelled in different ways, do not assume that the first use is right, or the most frequent use is\\nright, or any or all of them are right. Check with the author. Write declined to be identified not\\ndeclined to be named. The source already has a name but does not wish to publicise his identity.\\nSee also Chinese, Ethiopian, European, Hispanic, Korean, Portuguese, Thai, Vietnamese names.\\n\\npersuade, convince\\n\\nYou persuade people to do something, convince them of something or that something is the case.\\nNever write convince to.\\n\\nA bottle of petrol with a petrol-soaked rag stuffed into the neck. The rag is set alight and the bottle\\nthrown, resulting in a fiery explosion on impact. Do not use Molotov cocktail.\\n\\npetrol bomb\\n\\nPetrodollar\\n\\nPGA\\n\\nProfessional Golfers(cid:25) Association\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n352\\n\\n\\x0cphenomenon\\n\\nphoney\\n\\nphosphorus\\n\\npidgin English\\n\\npigeonhole\\n\\nBoth noun and verb.\\n\\npilots\\n\\npileup\\n\\nPIN\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nphase, faze\\n\\n353\\n\\nPhase is a stage in growth or development. Faze is to worry or disturb.\\n\\nPhenomena is the plural form. Do not use phenomenal if you mean extraordinary or remarkable or\\njust big.\\n\\npicket, picketed, picket line\\n\\npicnic, picnicking, picknicked, picknicker\\n\\nMilitary aircraft other than strategic bombers and transports normally carry only one pilot. Write the\\ntwo crew not the two pilots when reporting incidents involving fighter-bombers and the like.\\n\\nOne word as a noun, two words as a verb.\\n\\nPersonal identification number. PIN number is tautologous.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n353\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n354\\n\\nAvoid describing someone as e.g. a pious Muslim or a pious Christian. Say practising.\\n\\npious\\n\\nplan ahead\\n\\nJust plan will do.\\n\\nplane\\n\\nplanets\\n\\nplea bargain\\n\\nUse aircraft, but higher plane, not higher plain.\\n\\nCapitalise the names of planets.\\n\\nplead, pleading, pleaded\\n\\nLegalese. Use pleaded.\\n\\npled\\n\\nPLO\\n\\nNoun. Plea-bargain is the verb. The verb is only used intransitively, i.e. not The lawyer\\nplea-bargained the case.\\n\\nPalestine (not Palestinian) Liberation Organisation. PLO is acceptable on first reference. Spell out in\\na subsequent reference.\\n\\nplough, but American style plow\\n\\nplummet\\n\\nAvoid in market reports unless it is a precipitous decline. A 2-percent fall is not a plummet.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n354\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n355\\n\\nplurality\\n\\nSee majority, plurality.\\n\\nTime, e.g. 3 p.m. or 3:45 p.m.\\n\\np.m.\\n\\npodcast\\n\\npodium\\n\\npoems\\n\\npoint-blank\\n\\nNote hyphen.\\n\\npointed out\\n\\npolice\\n\\nUse police officers, not policemen.\\n\\npolicymakers\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nA speaker stands behind a lectern (a stand for notes) on a podium and in a pulpit. Several speakers\\ncan fit on a dais or rostrum or platform.\\n\\nAs in other works of art, capitalise every word in the title apart from conjunctions, articles, particles\\nand short prepositions, e.g. (cid:28)The Rime of the Ancient Mariner(cid:29), (cid:28)Elegy in a Country Churchyard(cid:29),\\n(cid:28)The Waste Land(cid:29).\\n\\nAvoid this term if the statement is in any way contentious since it suggests that the writer accepts\\nthat what the speaker is saying is a fact. Plain said is better.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n355\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nPolisario Front\\n\\n356\\n\\nAlgeria-based movement seeking the independence of Western Sahara from Morocco. It fought a\\nlow-level war for independence for 16 years after Morocco annexed the territory with the pullout of\\ncolonial power Spain in 1975. Its name is the Spanish abbreviation for the Popular Front for the\\nLiberation of Saguia el-Hamra and Rio de Oro.\\n\\npolitical parties\\n\\nCapitalise the names of political parties and of movements with a specific doctrine, e.g. a\\nCommunist official, a Democratic senator. Use lower case for non-specific references, e.g. The\\ncommunist part of the former Soviet Bloc, but the Communist Party of what was then East\\nGermany; the settlement was run on communist principles; he proposed a democratic vote. The\\nname of a political phlosophy should be lower case as noun or adjective, unless it derives from a\\nproper noun: communism, communist, fascism, fascist, but Marxism, Marxist, Nazi, Nazism.\\n\\nPolynesia, Melanesia and Micronesia are island groups in the Pacific and sub-regions of Oceania.\\n\\nCapitalise only as a title before a name, not when referrring to the pope. See religious titles\\n\\nThe common folk. Does not mean the population\\n\\nPour liquid and pore over maps and documents.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n356\\n\\npoliticking\\n\\nPolynesia\\n\\npooh-pooh\\n\\nPoona\\n\\nUse Pune, India.\\n\\nPope\\n\\npopulace\\n\\npore\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nport, starboard\\n\\nPortuguese names\\n\\nPort is left, starboard right in nautical parlance. Use left and right.\\n\\n357\\n\\nPortuguese and Brazilians, like the Spanish, include the family names both of their father and their\\nmother in their full names. Unlike the Spanish, they put the mother(cid:25)s name before the father(cid:25)s and\\nthey normally retain both names at second reference. Where they use one it would always be the\\npatronymic, i.e. the last name. Thus Jose Cabral Nettim could be either Cabral Nettim or Nettim at\\nsecond reference.\\n\\nAvoid as a synonym for good or fruitful.\\n\\nposh\\n\\nSlang. Avoid.\\n\\npositive\\n\\npostmarket\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\npost mortem\\n\\npostpone\\n\\npostwar\\n\\nNo hyphen.\\n\\nNeeds the word examination afterwards -- a post mortem examination. By itself, post mortem\\nmeans simply \\'after death\\'.\\n\\nEvents that are called off but will be held later are postponed. Report the new date if possible. Only\\nthose events scrapped completely are cancelled. American style uses cancel,canceled, canceling\\nbut cancellation.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n357\\n\\n\\x0c358\\n\\nThe abbreviation lb (with no full stop and the same in the singular and the plural) is acceptable at all\\nreferences. To convert to grams roughly multiply by 900 and divide by 2, precisely multiply by 454.\\nTo convert to kilograms roughly multiply by 9 and divide by 20, precisely multiply by 0.454.\\n\\nUse pounds rather than the \'c2\'a3 sign to denote sums in pounds sterling, thus 420\\n\\nPour liquid and pore over maps and documents.\\n\\nPractice is the noun, practise the verb, but in American style practice is both noun and verb.\\n\\nIf the second element of a word beginning with pre- starts with an e, hyphenate, e.g. pre-empt.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npotato, potatoes\\n\\npound\\n\\npound sign\\n\\npour, pore\\n\\npractice, practise\\n\\npre-\\n\\nprecautionary measure\\n\\nPrecaution alone will do.\\n\\nprecondition\\n\\nTautological. Condition is enough.\\n\\npre-dawn\\n\\nIf something happened shortly before dawn, pre-dawn may be technically correct, but it is a clich\'c3\'a9\\nto avoided. Never use it to mean merely that something happened during the night.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n358\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npredominant, predominantly\\n\\nNot predominate, predominately.\\n\\n359\\n\\nAs a general rule do not hyphenate. The exceptions are if the prefix ends in a vowel and the word\\nthat follows starts with the same vowel, e.g. pre-eminence and pre-establish. Cooperate and\\ncoordinate are exceptions. If the word that follows a prefix is capitalised then use a hyphen, e.g.\\ntrans-Panamanian. Transatlantic and transpacific are exceptions.\\n\\nUse premier for heads of government in states that are part of a larger political entity, e.g. the\\nAustralian and German states and the Canadian provinces. Reserve prime minister for the heads of\\ngovernment of sovereign states. Premier may be used for brevity in a headline.\\n\\nThe debut, opening or first showing of a TV show or film.\\n\\npremier league\\n\\nThe English premier league is not capitalised.\\n\\npremise, premises\\n\\nPremises are always plural when referring to property, but legalistic and best avoided. Prefer an\\nexact description (cid:19) the house, the factory etc. A premise is a proposition supporting an argument.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n359\\n\\npredilection\\n\\nprefixes\\n\\npremarket\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\npremier\\n\\npremiere\\n\\npre-owned\\n\\nUse second-hand.\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npreplanned\\n\\nTautological. Planned is enough.\\n\\nprepositional phrases\\n\\n360\\n\\nPhrases that start and end with a preposition are usually verbose. Avoid expressions like: in order to\\n... in accordance with ... at this moment ... in respect to ... in receipt of ... with a view to & in\\nconnection with ... in the wake of & apprehension as to the outcome.\\n\\nPrescribe is to set down as an order, proscribe is to prohibit.\\n\\nUse to mean in a short time or soon, rather than now or at present. Present and presently are\\nusually redundant when used to mean what is happening now.\\n\\nCapitalise only when a formal title before a name.\\n\\nPresidents Day\\n\\nNo apostrophe. Unofficial name of the holiday celebrating George Washington\\'s birthday, and\\nobserved on the third Monday in February. This usage comes up in our copy at least one day a\\nyear.\\n\\nprescribe\\n\\npresently\\n\\nPresident\\n\\npresidency\\n\\nLower case.\\n\\npress conference\\n\\nUse news conference unless broadcast journalists, photographer and camera operators have been\\nexcluded.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n360\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npress reports\\n\\n361\\n\\nWhen picking up newspaper, radio or television reports, name the source. Do not refer just to press\\nreports. Quoting a news report does not exonerate journalists from responsibility to be accurate,\\nbalanced and not defamatory. We should make every effort to check a pick-up (cid:19) even ... not\\navailable to comment... shows an effort was made. Insert relevant background and give some\\nindication of the political stance, reliability and potential for bias of the source.\\n\\nUse press or pressure unless speaking of industrial processes.\\n\\nAvoid this pompous and often tautological word. If something is prestigious, or famous, then we\\nneed hardly say so.\\n\\npressurise\\n\\nprestigious\\n\\npretax\\n\\nOne word, no hyphen.\\n\\npretence, pretext\\n\\nA pretence is a false show, a sham or a false allegation. A pretext is an ostensible motive put\\nforward to conceal the real one. Pretense is the American style.\\n\\npretension, pretentious\\n\\nprevaricate, procrastinate\\n\\nprime minister\\n\\nPrevaricate is to mislead or lie. Procrastinate is to delay or defer.\\n\\nCapitalise the title when it immediately precedes the person(cid:25)s name. When the title follows the\\nname or is used alone, use lower case, e.g.: French Prime Minister Jacques Dupont; Jacques\\nDupont, the French prime minister. But The president said: (cid:28)I would like to welcome the\\nManchukistan prime minister, Stefan Hartzjand.(cid:29)\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n361\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nprime rate\\n\\n362\\n\\nIn the United States prime rate is a benchmark reference for determining interest rates on\\nshort-term loans to high-quality large borrowers. The actual rate could be lower but more often it is\\nhigher than the benchmark. Sometimes used erroneously to imply it is the bank(cid:25)s lowest rate.\\n\\nPrinciple is always a noun, meaning a fundamental basis or truth. Principal can be an adjective,\\nmeaning chief, or a noun meaning chief person, as in principal of a school or capital sum, as in debt\\nprincipal.\\n\\nprimeval\\n\\nprincipal, principle\\n\\nprior to\\n\\nPrefer before.\\n\\nprise apart, not prize.\\n\\nprison officers\\n\\nNot jailers or warders.\\n\\npristine\\n\\nprize money\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nprisoner of war, prisoners of war\\n\\nHyphenate when a compound modifier: prisoner-of-war camp.\\n\\nPristine means belonging to the earliest period or in its original state. It does not mean just clean.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n362\\n\\n\\x0c363\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nprivate equity firm\\n\\nThree words.\\n\\nprivilege, privileged\\n\\nNot priviledged.\\n\\nproactive\\n\\nprocess\\n\\nPrefer active or energetic.\\n\\nProcter and Gamble\\n\\nNot Proctor and Gamble.\\n\\nproffer, proffered\\n\\nprofit\\n\\nNot profits.\\n\\nprofit-sharing\\n\\nCan usually be excised in phrases such as development process. Prefer active or energetic.\\n\\nHyphenated for both noun and adjective.\\n\\nprofit-taking\\n\\nHyphenated for both noun and adjective.\\n\\nprognosis\\n\\nPrognosis is forecasting, or a forecast, especially of a disease.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n363\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n364\\n\\nUse this spelling only in stories about computers and for stock market program trading. Otherwise\\nprogamme. In American style, program is for all uses.\\n\\nprogram\\n\\npro-life\\n\\nUse anti-abortion.\\n\\nprone, supine\\n\\npronouns\\n\\npronunciation\\n\\npropeller\\n\\nproper names\\n\\nProne, like prostrate, means lying face down. Supine is face up.\\n\\nUse neuter pronouns for countries, ships, cars, aircraft, animals, etc., e.g. Portugal and its\\nterritories, Aboard the liner when it sailed. The occasional bright story may be enhanced by the use\\nof a feminine or masculine pronoun to personalise a machine or animal, but these should be rare\\nexceptions.\\n\\nWhen a difficult personal or place name appears on the file for the first time, radio and television\\nsubscribers by giving a guide to pronunciation. Assume familiarity with the principles guiding\\npronunciation of European languages like English, French, German, Italian and Spanish and need\\nnot provide guides to pronunciation of most names phonetically transcribed from another script, e.g.\\nArabic or Japanese. Give guidance in brackets after the name, hyphenating the syllables and\\ncapitalising the syllable stressed, e.g. General Michel Aoun (pronounced OW-oon), a rail strike in\\nBydgoszcz (pronounced BID-gosh).\\n\\nIf proper names are in English use the style and spelling as it appears on the organisation(cid:25)s own\\nnameplate and business cards, e.g. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Scottish Labour\\nParty, U.S. Department of Defense. If proper names are translated into English use the spelling\\nconvention of that region.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n364\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nprophecy, prophesy\\n\\n365\\n\\nI make a phrophecy when I prophesy. The noun is prophecy, the verb is prophesy.\\n\\nproscribe, prescribe\\n\\nProscribe is to prohibit, prescribe to set down as an order.\\n\\nprostate, prostrate\\n\\nProstate is a gland, prostrate is lying face down.\\n\\nprotest\\n\\nprotester\\n\\nprototype\\n\\nproven\\n\\nproverbial\\n\\nProtest against a government or protest about a policy. If it is a solemn declaration rather than an\\nact of disapproval then protest the faith or protest his innocence. Do not write a protest when you\\nare describing a demonstration. American style drops the adverb for the verb of disapproval, protest\\nthe policy.\\n\\nNot protestor. But demonstrator.\\n\\nThe original model. Do not qualify, as in the first prototype or an early prototype.\\n\\nUse proved except in two cases: in writing of oil reserves or of the Scottish legal verdict not proven\\n(neither guilty nor not guilty).\\n\\nBest excised. If you are using or describing a proverb then there is no need to say so.\\n\\nprovost marshal, provost marshals\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n365\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\npublic school\\n\\n366\\n\\nIn some countries this term refers to a private or fee-paying school as opposed to a state or\\ngovernment school. Use only when quoting someone and then explain it.\\n\\nNo quotation marks around the title. Capitalise articles and particles in the names of\\nEnglish-language newspapers and magazines, e.g. The New York Times, The News of the World.\\nThe names of some non-English language newspapers begin with a word meaning the. In such\\ncases write O Globo/Le Monde/Die Welt not the O Globo/Le Monde/Die Welt newspaper.\\n\\npublications\\n\\npublicly\\n\\nNot publically.\\n\\npull back, pullback\\n\\nTwo words for the verb, one for the noun.\\n\\npull out, pullout\\n\\nTwo words for the verb, one for the noun.\\n\\npunctuation\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\napostrophes: Use the apostrophe according to the following rules, unless to do so would\\nlead to a word that looked or sounded very strange.\\n\\nSingular words and plural words not ending in s form the possessive by adding (cid:24)s, e.g. Boeing(cid:25)s\\nnew airliner, the children(cid:25)s books. Plural words already ending in s form the possessive by adding\\nthe apostrophe alone, e.g. the soldiers(cid:25) weapons.\\n\\nThere is usually no problem about using the apostrophe with words ending in s. the class(cid:25)s\\nperformance, the princesses(cid:25) return, Shultz(cid:25)s car are all acceptable because they can be\\npronounced easily. Some words would look or sound so odd, e.g. the Dukakises(cid:25)s son, Paris(cid:25)s\\nreputation, Tunis(cid:25)s main prison or Woolworths(cid:25)s results that it best to write your way out of trouble.\\nRecast such phrases, e.g. the son of the Dukasises, the reputation of Paris, the main prison in\\nTunis and results from Woolworths. Companies which end in s like Qantas or Optus might also\\nappear ugly with the (cid:24)s possessive. The best option is to avoid if possible.\\n\\nNote that it(cid:25)s is a contraction of it is. The possessive form of it is its.\\n\\nDo not use an apostrophe in words like the 1990s or abbreviations like NCOs.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n366\\n\\n\\x0c\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n367\\n\\nbrackets: If an entire sentence is in brackets, put the full stop (period) inside the closing\\nbracket, e.g. ( ...reported earlier.) If a sentence has a bracketed section at the end, the full\\nstop goes outside the closing bracket, e.g. -reported earlier). If a bracketed section in the\\nmiddle of a sentence is followed by a comma, it also goes outside the bracket.\\n\\ncolons: Use a colon before directly quoting a complete sentence and as a signal that you\\nare about to list things advertised in the preceding words, e.g. ... these were: three French\\nhens, two turtle doves and a partridge in a pear tree. Put the word following a colon in lower\\ncase unless the next word is a proper name, a direct quotation or the beginning of a\\nsentence.\\n\\ncommas: Do not over-punctuate, especially with commas. Any sentence studded with\\ncommas could probably benefit from a rewrite. Use commas as a guide to sense, to break a\\nsentence into logically discrete parts, but do not use them to the extent that they break the\\nsentence flow.\\n\\nUse commas to mark off words and phrases that are in apposition to, or define other words or\\nphrases in the sentence e.g. Herve de Charette, French foreign minister, said ... Rudolf Nureyev,\\nmost prominent of the defectors from the Bolshoi, has danced &\\n\\nUse commas to mark off a clause that is not essential to the meaning of a sentence, e.g. The\\nairliner, which was seven years old, crashed ... But a clause that cannot be removed from the\\nsentence without affecting its meaning is not marked off by commas, e.g. The airliner that crashed\\non Thursday was seven years old but the plane lost the previous day was brand new.\\n\\nUse commas to separate items in a list, e.g. cheese, fruit, wine and coffee or Smith despised ballet,\\nhated the theatre and was bored by opera. Note that there is normally no comma before the final\\nand. However, a comma should be used in this position if to leave it out would risk ambiguity, e.g.\\nHe admired Irving Berlin, Rodgers and Hart, and Leonard Bernstein.\\n\\nA comma follows an initial however. But as long as there is no risk of ambiguity there is no need for\\nthe comma after opening phrases like On Wednesday the committee decided ... In the first four\\nmonths of 2002 Britain exported ...\\n\\ndashes: Use dashes sparingly, never to set off relative clauses in a sentence. For the sake\\nof clarity, dashes should be double ((cid:19)) and hyphens single (-). Dashes are followed by lower\\ncase unless they are used to label sections of a list The study concluded: (cid:19) Almost half had\\nmore exports this year than last. (cid:19) In 1995, a third had less imports than in 1994. (cid:19) One in\\nfive expects better terms of trade in 1996.\\n\\nhyphenation: Use the hyphen if its omission might lead to ambiguity, e.g. three year-old\\nhorses is quite different from three-year-old horses. Use caution in headlines: False jailing\\nclaim delayed or False-jailing claim delayed?\\n\\nHyphens tend to erode with time and many words once hyphenated are now generally written\\nunhyphenated e.g. ceasefire, cooperation, gunrunner, machinegun.\\n\\nUse a hyphen to show that two or more words are to be read together as a single word with its own\\nmeaning, different from that of the individual words, e.g. extra-judicial duties (duties other than\\njudicial ones) as opposed to extra judicial duties (additional judicial duties).\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n367\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n368\\n\\nDo not hyphenate an adjective and a noun when they stand alone, e.g. the left wing of the party. If\\nthe adjective and noun are paired to form a new adjective, they are hyphenated, e.g. a first-class\\nresult, the left-wing party. Hyphenate numbers and nouns or adjectives when they are paired to\\nform a new adjective, e.g. a six-cylinder car, a one-armed man. Do not hyphenate adjectives used\\nto form comparatives or superlatives, e.g. the most desirable outcome, the least likely result, the\\nmore obvious solution.\\n\\nDo not hyphenate an adverb and adjective when they stand alone, e.g. The artist was well known. If\\nthe adverb and adjective are paired to form a new adjective, they are hyphenated, e.g. a well-known\\nartist. Do not do so if the adverb ends in -ly, e.g. a poorly planned operation.\\n\\nHyphenate two adjectives or an adjective and a present or past participle when they are paired to\\nform a new adjective, e.g. a dark-blue dress, a good-looking man, a well-tailored suit.\\n\\nDo not hyphenate very with an adjective. He is a very good man.\\n\\nIf the second element in a word is capitalised, hyphenate, e.g. anti-Semitism. Transatlantic is an\\nexception.\\n\\nIf pre- or re- is followed by an element beginning with e, hyphenate e.g. pre-empt, re-employ.\\n\\nIf the first element of a word is the negative non-, hyphenate, e.g. a non-aggression pact (but\\nnonconformist).\\n\\nWhere two nouns are paired to form another noun, hyphenate if their original distinct meanings are\\nstill clearly retained, e.g. actor-manager. Otherwise do not hyphenate, e.g. housekeeper.\\n\\nWhere a verb and adverb are paired to form a noun, hyphenate if the verb ends and the adverb\\nbegins with a vowel, e.g. cave-in, flare-up.\\n\\nHyphenate titles when the first word is a preposition, e.g. under-secretary, vice-admiral, or when a\\nnoun is followed by an adjective, e.g. attorney-general. (However official U.S. titles are not\\nhyphenated, e.g. the US. Attorney General.) Do not hyphenate when the noun follows the adjective,\\ne.g. second lieutenant.\\n\\nHyphenate fractions, e.g. three-quarter, two-thirds.\\n\\nHyphenate secondary compass points, e.g. south-southwest but not main ones e.g. southwest.\\n\\nHyphenate compound words when not to do so would result in an ugly sound or confusion of\\nmeaning, e.g. cross-section, sea-eagle.\\n\\nHyphenate both terms in phrases such as short- and medium-range missiles. If a figure being\\nconverted is hyphenated make sure that the figure in the conversion is also, e.g. within a 10-mile\\n(six-km) radius.\\n\\nPune\\n\\nNot Poona, India.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n368\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n369\\n\\nPrefer gambler, not bettor which is unfamiliar outside the Americas. Do not use in financial stories\\nas a synonym for investors or speculators unless it is in quotes, in which case explain.\\n\\npunter\\n\\npurchase\\n\\nbuy is shorter and better.\\n\\npush up, push-up\\n\\npygmy\\n\\nTwo words for the verb, one word for the noun.\\n\\nPyrrhic victory\\n\\nAt great cost to the victor.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nLower case if you mean small, as in pygmy hippopotamus, but upper case for members of specific\\nhuman groups in Asia and Africa.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n369\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n370\\n\\nQ\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 QE2,\\nQM2\\n2\\nquadriplegia\\n3\\nquadruped\\n4 Quakers\\n5\\nquandary\\n6\\nquantum\\nleap\\n7\\nquarter-final\\n8 queen\\n9 question\\nmarks\\n10 quip\\n11 quite\\n12\\nquotations\\n\\nQE2, QM2\\n\\nquadriplegia\\n\\nquadruped\\n\\nQuakers\\n\\nThe only acceptable abbreviations for the liners Queen Elizabeth 2 and Queen Mary 2. They may\\nbe used at first reference. The QE2 is due to end active service in late 2008.\\n\\nThe paralysis of all four limbs as opposed to paraplegia, the total or partial paralysis of both legs.\\n\\nPermissible in stories about the Religious Society of Friends. Spell out the full name if the story is\\nabout the religious movement or its activities.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n370\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n371\\n\\nAvoid. It means a sudden and spectacular advance, which is clearer than quantum leap. Strictly\\nquantum simply means a quantity or a specified portion, and in physics the smallest amount of a\\nphysical quantity that can exist independently.\\n\\nquandary\\n\\nquantum leap\\n\\nquarter-final\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nqueen\\n\\nquestion marks\\n\\nquip\\n\\nquite\\n\\nquotations\\n\\nQueen Elizabeth at first reference and the queen or Queen Elizabeth at second reference.\\n\\nDo not use question marks in headlines where, if they are accidentally dropped, the meaning can be\\nchanged from a possibility to a fact.\\n\\nThe president/prime minister quipped... is a phrase almost invariably followed by something that is\\nnot funny. Avoid both quip and third-rate humour.\\n\\nAvoid. It can be expressed more clearly and it is ambiguous. In American usage it means very and\\nin European usage it can mean just a little or only moderately.\\n\\nQuotes are sacred. Do not alter anything put in quotation marks other than to delete words, and\\nthen only if the deletion does not alter the sense of the quote. Quotes personalise stories and give\\nthem immediacy. Try to inject a quote into the first three paragraphs of any story where it is\\nappropriate.\\n\\nBefore starting a quote, use a colon. He said: "I don\\'t think so", not He said, "I don\\'t think so".\\n\\nDelete routine obscenities.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n371\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n372\\n\\nShow deletions from a quoted text with three full stops with a space before and after, e.g. He said:\\n(cid:28)We will win by fair means or foul ... and the devil take the hindmost.(cid:29)\\n\\nIf the words omitted are at the end of a sentence and are followed by another sentence in quotation\\nmarks, then the next word is capitalised to show the start of a new sentence. (cid:28)We will fight and we\\nwill win ... We will never surrender.(cid:29) You may drop words in this way only if the deletion does not\\nalter the sense of the quote.\\n\\nTo background or explain a quote, do so in a separate paragraph or by bracketing a phrase into the\\nquoted remarks, e.g. He said: (cid:28)They (the Khmer Rouge) are bound to fail.(cid:29)\\n\\nWhen quoting the same source for a lengthy statement there is no need to repeat the source\\nparagraph by paragraph as long as there is no doubt who is speaking.\\n\\nDo not run one person(cid:25)s quote into another(cid:25)s. Use a bridging sentence or phrase to make the\\ntransition from one source to the next clear to the reader e.g. (cid:28)The world is round,(cid:29) said Smith, but\\nJones disagreed: (cid:28)It is round,(cid:29) Jones said.\\n\\nAvoid quotes in colloquial or parochial language not easily translated or understood in other\\ncountries. If you do give such quotes, explain what they mean, e.g. He said: (cid:28)Clinton is behind the\\neight ball (in a difficult situation).(cid:29)\\n\\nIn a quote spell out what is actually spoken rather than using customary style abbreviations. It is\\nbetter to write (cid:28)The president does not think that Doctor Williams needs to resign,(cid:29) he said, rather\\nthan (cid:28)The president does not think that Dr Williams needs to resign,(cid:29) he said.\\n\\nWhen translating quotes from another language into English, do so in an idiomatic way rather than\\nwith pedantic literalness. However, give a literal translation if a statement is tendentious and likely to\\nbe the subject of close analysis.\\n\\nAvoid excessive use of direct quotes in English when a speaker has spoken in another language.\\n\\nThe full stop goes inside the quotation marks when the quotation is a complete sentence. "The\\npresident told us \\'I will not raise your taxes.\\' But he did". It goes outside the quotation marks when\\nthe quotation is the final part of the sentence. "The president told us \\'I will not raise your taxes\\',"\\n\\nWhen the quotation precedes the source put the comma inside the quotation marks. (cid:28)We have no\\nchoice but to increase taxes,(cid:29) the president said.\\n\\nQuote the titles of films, plays and books but not of ships, aircraft, newspapers or magazines.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n372\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n373\\n\\nR\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 raccoon\\n2 race\\n3 rack, wrack\\n4 racket\\n5 radical\\n6 Ramadan\\n7 rand\\n8 ranges\\n9 rape victims\\n10 rapt, wrapped\\n11 rarefied\\n12 ravage, ravish\\n13 razed to the ground\\n14 re-\\n15 realtor\\n16 reassure\\n17 rebut, refute\\n18 recession\\n19 reckless\\n20 reconnaissance\\n21 record\\n22 recur, recurring, recurred\\n23 Red Cross\\n24 re-elect, re-election\\n25 refer\\n26 referendum, referendums\\n27 refute\\n28 regime\\n29 register office, not registry\\noffice.\\n30 reins, reigns\\n31 reiterate again\\n32 relatively\\n33 religion, religious titles\\n34 religious terms\\n35 reluctant, reticent\\n36 remain, remained\\n37 remainder\\n38 rendezvous\\n39 repeat, repetition\\n40 repechage\\n41 repellent\\n42 replica\\n43 reported, reportedly\\n44 report\\n45 reports\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n373\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n374\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n46 requirements\\n47 resistible, irresistible\\n48 responsible\\n49 restaurateur\\n50 result in\\n51 Reuters name\\n52 reveal\\n53 revenue\\n54 Reverend\\n55 revert back\\n56 rhinoceros, rhinoceroses\\n57 Richter scale\\n58 rifle, riffle\\n59 right wing\\n60 rigmarole\\n61 road map\\n62 rock(cid:25)n(cid:25)roll\\n63 rocks\\n64 Rolls-Royce\\n65 Roma\\n66 Roman Catholic Church\\n67 Romania\\n68 Roman Numerals\\n69 roofs\\n70 roro\\n71 Rosh Hashanah\\n72 round up, roundup\\n73 round robin\\n74 rounding figures\\n75 row\\n76 royalty\\n77 rubber stamp,\\nrubber-stamp\\n78 rule\\n79 run for office\\n80 rundown, run down\\n81 runner-up, runners-up\\n82 rush hour, rush-hour\\n83 rushed to hospital\\n\\nraccoon\\n\\nrace\\n\\nReuters stories should be free of conscious or unconscious racism. Avoid racial stereotyping and\\ndescribe membership of a group, ethnicity or race precisely. For further guidance, go to the sections\\non value judgments and religious, cultural and national differences under Specialised Guidance.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n374\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n375\\n\\nMention race or ethnicity only when relevant to the understanding of a story. For example, if\\nsomeone is facing deportation, it is appropriate to give his or her nationality. Similarly, the ethnic\\norigin of a person who receives racial threats or is the target of a racist attack is essential context.\\n\\nTake care when reporting crimes and court cases. The race of an accused person is not usually\\nrelevant.\\n\\nClearly, race is an important factor in stories about racial controversy or immigration, or where an\\nissue cuts across racial lines. For example, if European-born people join Tibetan exiles in\\ndemonstrations against China\\'s Tibet policy, this is a point worth mentioning.\\n\\nRace is pertinent in reporting a feat or appointment unusual for a person of a particular ethnic\\ngroup, for example someone born in China who becomes an international cricket umpire. In the\\nUnited States, the terms black and African-American are both acceptable. Black is fine as an\\nadjective, eg "Obama will be the first black U.S. president". As a noun, the plural is acceptable\\nwhere it might contrast with another group, eg doctors found differences between the treatment\\noffered to whites and blacks. Do not use black as a singular noun -- it is both awkward and\\noffensive. "Barack Obama would be the first black to become U.S. president" is unacceptable.\\nBetter to say "Barack Obama will become the first black U.S. president". Native Spanish speakers in\\nthe United States may be referred to as Latino or Hispanic, but it is better to be specific (Colombian,\\nMexican). Also, some people from Latin America are not Hispanic, eg Brazilians. As a general rule,\\nuse the term by which the people of a particular ethnic group describe themselves: Inuit (not\\nEskimo), Roma (not Gypsy), Sami (not Lapp), Native American (not Indian).\\n\\nCapitalise the names of races and peoples: Asian, Jew, Hispanic. Note that black and white are\\nlower case.\\n\\nIf a racially derogatory expression is used in a direct quote, this should be flagged at the top of the\\nstory:(Note racial slur in paragraph 12)\\n\\nUse wrack only for seaweed and in the phrase wrack and ruin. Otherwise use rack, e.g. racked with\\npain.\\n\\nrack, wrack\\n\\nracket\\n\\nNot racquet.\\n\\nradical\\n\\nAvoid this word in a political context.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n375\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nRamadan\\n\\n376\\n\\nThe month of fasting when devout Muslims refrain from all food, drink or sex during daylight hours\\nand focus on devotion and good works. The majority Sunnis fast between dawn and sunset, the\\nShia from dawn to dusk. The start and end of the month for most Islamic countries depends on the\\nsighting of the new moon by the naked eye. It is the ninth and holiest month of the Islamic, lunar\\ncalendar. Eid al-Fitr is the holiday celebrated at the end of Ramadan.\\n\\nrand\\n\\nNo "s" in plural.\\n\\nranges\\n\\nrape victims\\n\\nrapt, wrapped\\n\\nrarefied\\n\\nravage, ravish\\n\\nrazed to the ground\\n\\nTautologous. Razed will do.\\n\\n$22 million to $26 million, not $22 to $26 million.\\n\\nIn many countries it is illegal to report the names of victims of sexual crime. Standardise globally to\\nsay we do NOT name victims.\\n\\nRapt is entranced or wholly engrossed, wrapped is folded together or enfolded.\\n\\nRavage is to lay waste or pillage. Ravish is to abduct or to rape. You ravage a village and ravish a\\nmaiden.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n376\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n377\\n\\nIf the second element of a word beginning with re- starts with an e, hyphenate, e.g. re-employ,\\nre-elected.\\n\\nUse this word with caution. It means to give a new assurance. It does not mean (e.g. Hitler\\nreassured Czechoslovakia that he had no designs on its territory) that the person to whom the\\nassurance is given is necessarily reassured. Better to write again assured.\\n\\nUse with care. Refute means to disprove, not to deny or reject. Rebut has a similar meaning, not\\njust to argue against, so its use implies an editorial judgment. Avoid, except in quotes, unless we\\nare really sure we are using them correctly. Deny or reject may be preferred.\\n\\nA period of low economic activity with high unemployment and numerous business failures. There\\nare varying definitions. In the United States it is two consecutive quarterly falls in gross domestic\\nproduct.\\n\\nre-\\n\\nrealtor\\n\\nUse real estate agenct\\n\\nreassure\\n\\nrebut, refute\\n\\nrecession\\n\\nreckless\\n\\nNot wreckless.\\n\\nreconnaissance\\n\\nrecord\\n\\nBy definition any record just set is new, so do not write a new world record.\\n\\nrecur, recurring, recurred\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n377\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nRed Cross\\n\\n378\\n\\nThe Red Cross movement comprises: the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC); the\\nInternational Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (formerly the League of Red\\nCross and Red Crescent Societies); and more than 160 national societies around the world. Both\\nthe ICRC (founded in 1863 and still almost exclusively composed of Swiss citizens) and the\\nfederation (1919) are based in Geneva. The ICRC helps victims of war and internal conflicts. The\\nfederation, which groups the 160-plus national societies, brings relief to victims of natural disasters\\nand helps care for refugees outside areas of conflict. The ICRC(cid:25)s work in protecting wounded and\\nsick servicemen, prisoners of war and civilians in times of armed conflict is based on international\\nhumanitarian law enshrined in the four Geneva conventions of 1949 and two protocols signed in\\n1977. Give the ICRC title in full at first reference; do not abbreviate to the \\'International Red Cross(cid:25)\\nsince such a body does not exist. For the sake of brevity in a lead paragraph you can refer to a Red\\nCross official or spokesman as long as you make clear lower in the story which organisation he\\nbelongs to. See www.icrc.org and www.ifrc.org\\n\\nRefer means to mention directly. Allude means to refer to in passing without making an explicit\\nmention. He alluded to the sins of his past and referred to his criminal record.\\n\\nre-elect, re-election\\n\\nrefer\\n\\nreferendum, referendums\\n\\nrefute\\n\\nregime\\n\\nUse with care. Refute means to disprove, not to deny or reject. Rebut has a similar meaning, not\\njust to argue against, so its use implies an editorial judgment. Avoid, except in quotes, unless we\\nare really sure we are using them correctly. Deny or reject may be preferred.\\n\\nA word with negative overtones in a political context. Use government.\\n\\nregister office, not registry office.\\n\\nreins, reigns\\n\\nReins control a horse. A monarch reigns.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n378\\n\\n\\x0c379\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nreiterate again\\n\\nA tautology. Just reiterate will do.\\n\\nrelatively\\n\\nreligion, religious titles\\n\\nDo not use unless in a comparison. Do not write He is relatively young. Compared to whom? He is\\nyounger than the rest of the team.\\n\\nReligion: Names of divinities are capitalised but unspecific plurals are lower case, e.g. Allah, the\\nAlmighty, Christ, God, Jehovah, the Deity, the Holy Trinity, but the gods, the lords of the universe.\\nCapitalise religious titles when they immediately precede a personal name, otherwise use lower\\ncase, e.g. Bishop Thaddeus Smith, Dean Robert Jones, but the bishop, the dean. Use only the\\nsimplest and best-known titles at first reference, e.g. the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Dr John Smith rather\\nthan the Right Rev. John Smith. Capitalise names of denominations and religious movements, e.g.\\nBaptist, Buddhist, Christian, Church of England, Islamic, Jew, Jewish, Muslim, Orthodox. But\\nnon-denominational references are lower case, e.g. adult baptism, orthodox beliefs, built a temple.\\nThe Pope is head of the Roman Catholic Church or of the Church (that is, the whole body of Roman\\nCatholics) but he would celebrate mass in a Roman Catholic church (that is, a building). A baptist is\\nsomeone who baptises. A Baptist is a member of the Protestant denomination. With more than 20\\nseparate Baptist church groups in the United States, it is incorrect to refer to the Baptist Church as a\\nsingular entity. The correct reference would be to Baptist Churches or to the specific Baptist group\\ninvolved, e.g. the Southern Baptist Convention.\\n\\nreligious terms\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nabayaFull-body overgarment worn by some Muslim women to cover all but their face, feet\\nand hands. Most frequent in Arab countries.\\n\\nadhan:The Muslim call to prayer\\n\\nAnglican Communion: The worldwide association of Anglican and Episcopal churches. Not\\nthe Worldwide Anglican Communion.\\n\\nBaha\\'i faith: A syncretic religion that preaches the unity of all mankind and all spiritual\\nbeliefs. It recognises many major religious figures of history -- including Abraham, Moses,\\nBuddha, Krishna, Zoroaster, Jesus, Mohammad and its founder Baha\\'ullah -- as authentic\\nmessengers of God helping to bring humanity to spiritual maturity. Divine revelation\\ncontinues, according to their teaching, with the Baha\\'i faith being only the latest religion to\\nemerge from it. The Baha\\'is, who claim about five million followers, began in 19th century\\nIran but have since spread around the world.\\n\\nThe Baha\\'i faith emerged from Shi\\'ite Islam, but we should not refer to this origin when we\\ndescribe it. Despite retaining some elements of Shi\\'ite Islam, the Baha\\'i faith also took in\\nmany other ideas that made it a separate religion on its own. Calling it an offshoot of Islam is\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n379\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n380\\n\\nlike calling Christianity an offshoot of Judaism; it is correct in a very limited sense but\\nmisleading overall. The religious authorities in Shi\\'ite Iran consider the Baha\\'is heretics. The\\nBaha\\'is accuse Iran of oppressing them.\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nbasilica: A major church with special status, not necessarily a cathedral, which is the church\\nof a bishop.\\n\\nburqa: A one-piece head-to-toe covering for Muslim women, with a headband to hold it in\\nplace and a cloth mesh to cover the face but allow vision. Most frequent in Afghanistan and\\nPakistan. Some European languages use burqa for other kinds of covering, but avoid this\\nusage.\\n\\ncardinal: Honorary title for Catholic clerics who elect the next pope if they are under 80.\\nMost but not all are archbishops. New cardinals are made at a consistory.\\n\\ncathedral: Central church of a diocese and seat of the bishop. Not a generic term for any\\nlarge church.\\n\\nchador: Full-length cloak for Muslim women that covers the head and body but leaves the\\nface visible. Worn over a loose-fitting blouse and pants, it is open in front and held together\\nby the wearer. Usually worn in Iran, mostly in black.\\n\\nChristian: Use as an overall term, but not as a substitute for a precise name of a\\ndenomination. If possible, it is perferable to name the denomination, e.g. Roman Catholic,\\nLutheran, Baptist, etc. Protestant and Orthodox are also overall terms and more precision,\\nfor example Methodist or Greek Orthodox, is preferable.\\n\\nchurch, Church: A church is a house of prayer or a denomination. Capitalise when used in\\na title. In a story about a single church, (cid:28)the Church(cid:29) can be used to refer to the whole\\ndenomination on second reference and (cid:28)Church(cid:29) can be used as an adjective to mean\\nbelonging to that church.\\n\\nChurch of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: The Mormon church. (cid:28)Mormon church(cid:29)\\nacceptable on first reference, but give the official title soon afterward.\\n\\ncult: Refers to a faith group far from the religious mainstream, implying a charismatic leader\\nand possibly extreme views. Use very carefully.\\n\\ndenomination: Term for the different Christian churches, usually used for Protestant\\nchurches. Catholics and Orthodox object to being called denominations.\\n\\nEastern Catholic churches: Eastern Rite churches, the ancient Middle Eastern churches in\\ncommunion with the Roman Catholic Church.\\n\\necumenism: Cooperation among Christian churches. (cid:28)Inter-faith(cid:29) refers to cooperation\\namong religions.\\n\\nEpiscopal Church, Episcopal, Episcopalian: The Episcopal Church is the U.S. branch of\\nAnglicanism. (cid:28)Episcopal(cid:29) is the adjective referring to it and Episcopalian is the noun\\nreferring to its members. Do not refer to its members as (cid:28)Episcopals(cid:29). This is one of the\\nmost frequent mistakes made on the religion file.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n380\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n381\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nevangelical: A term for Protestants who stress personal conversion ((cid:28)born again(cid:29)) and the\\nauthority of the Bible. Evangelicals embrace modern culture, even if they are socially\\nconservative, while fundamentalists try to avoid what they see as sinful modern ways.\\nEvangelicals are found in several churches. Note in Europe, especially Germany,\\nevangelical is a general term for mainstream Protestant. Uppercase only when in a title.\\n\\nevangelism, evangelising: A neutral term for spreading the Gospel. Proselytise has\\nnegative connotations.\\n\\nevangelist: Originally, one of the four authors of the Gospels. Also, a preacher whose\\nsermons aim to convert listeners to Christianity. If a cleric heads a church of already\\nconverted Christians, call him or her a preacher, not an evangelist.\\n\\nFather: For Catholic priests, only use if in a quote. Rev. is the proper title for a priest.\\n\\nfundamentalist: Originally refers to Protestants who stress the fundamentals of their faith\\nand reject liberal interpretations. Often used for conservatives, especially for Muslims, but so\\noverused that it is best avoided. Alternatives are traditionalist, orthodox, conservative, etc.\\n\\nHaj: Capitalise. A Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca\\n\\nheadscarf: General term for Muslim women(cid:25)s head covering, either the hijab (covering just\\nthe hair) or the niqab (covering the face but leaving the eyes open).\\n\\nhijab: Muslim headscarf for women to cover the hair but leave the face open. Some styles\\nalso cover the neck and shoulders.\\n\\nMass: The central service of Catholic worship. It is celebrated or said\\n\\nMethodist churches: Methodist churches are Protestant churches that trace their origins to\\nan 18th-century Church of England revival movement led by John Wesley. There are many\\nseparate churches in the Methodist family, which at about 75 million members worldwide is\\none of the largest Christian traditions. Some but not all Methodist churches are part of the\\nevangelical movement. There are over 40 Methodist denominations in the United States,\\nincluding the United Methodist Church (the largest) and several African-American Methodist\\nchurches. The Methodist Church of Great Britain is the largest one in the United Kingdom.\\n\\nminister: Term for a cleric in many Protestant denominations. It is not a title and should not\\nbe capitalised.\\n\\nMonsignor: An honorary Roman Catholic title that is better avoided because it has two\\nmeanings. In Romance languages, it tends to be a general honorific for all prelates, up to\\ncardinal. In some other languages, it is used as a rank between priest and bishop. Use the\\ncleric(cid:25)s actual title (e.g. bishop, archbishop, cardinal) or Rev. if he is below episcopal rank.\\n\\nnew religious movement: Neutral term to describe a faith group outside the religious\\nmainstream.\\n\\nniqab: Muslim woman(cid:25)s full head and face covering that leaves only the eyes open.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n381\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n382\\n\\nOrthodox, orthodox: Capitalise in titles such as Orthodox Church or Orthodox Judaism.\\nLower case to denote strict adherence to the doctrines of a religion.\\n\\npontiff: A synonym for the pope, always lower case.\\n\\nPope, pope: Upper case for the title, e.g. Pope Benedict, but lower case for the term (cid:28)the\\npope.(cid:29)\\n\\nproselytise: To seek converts to a faith. Some Christian denominations say it has a\\nnegative connotation, implying the use of aggressive or unethical methods such as threats\\nor rewards, and prefer (cid:28)evangelise(cid:29) as a more neutral term.\\n\\nRoman Catholic Church: Official title, although Catholic Church can also be used.\\n\\nThe head of the Roman Catholic Church is the pope. Refer to a reigning pope at first reference as\\ne.g. Pope Benedict and at subsequent references as the pope or the pontiff. A reigning pope does\\nnot take Roman numerals after his name in Reuters copy unless to omit them would cause\\nconfusion. Past Church leaders should take Roman numerals after their name on first reference e.g.\\nPope Pius XII and may be referred to simply by their name e.g. Pius, on subsequent references\\nunless to omit the numerals would cause confusion.\\n\\nThe pope(cid:25)s closest advisers are known as cardinals, who are appointed by him. Those under 80\\ncan enter a conclave to elect a new pope. At first reference Cardinal John Doe. At subsequent\\nreferences the cardinal or Doe. A high-ranking member of the Church, such as a cardinal, an\\narchbishop or a bishop, can be referred to subsequently as a prelate. It(cid:25)s best to avoid the term\\nmonsignor since it means a rank between priest and bishop (e.g. Monsignor Martin Smith) in some\\ncountries but in others, especially Italy, France and Spain and in Latin America, it is a catchall title\\nused for monsignors, bishops, archbishops and cardinals, e.g. the Archbishop of Bogota, Monsignor\\nEnrique Perez. Avoid this usage also. Use Boston Archbishop Charles Dust. For priests, use Rev.\\nJohn Doe, not Father John Doe (except in quotes). Do not use the Rev., Reverend or Most\\nReverend.\\n\\nThe Church hierarchy is: priest, pastor, pastor, bishop, archbishop, cardinal, pope. The Church\\ngovernment working in the Vatican is known as the Curia, which must be explained if used. The\\nVatican technically refers to the city-state in Rome and the Holy See to the Church(cid:25)s central\\nadministration, but the terms have become interchangeable in common use. The Holy See(cid:25)s\\nambassadors around the world are known as papal nuncios and its embassies as nunciatures. If the\\nHoly See does not have formal diplomatic relations with a country the Pope(cid:25)s envoy to the church\\nin that country is an apostolic delegate.\\n\\nsect: A religious group that has broken off from a larger one. Use carefully as it has negative\\nconnotations. The neutral term is new religious movement.\\n\\nskullcap: Preferred generic term for small religious headpiece known as the Jewish kippa,\\nCatholic zucchetto or Musilm kufi. Avoid yarmulke, which is a Yiddish term used mostly in\\nthe United States.\\n\\ntemple: A non-Christian house of prayer. Some Jews use it for synagogue, but the latter is\\npreferred.\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n382\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n383\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nUnification Church: Founded by Rev. Sun Myung Moon in South Korea in 1954, the\\nUnification Church is a religious movement that has expanded around the world and is\\nbelieved to have up to three million members. Members have been dubbed "Moonies" by\\ntheir critics, but this is a pejorative term which we should not use in copy and avoid in direct\\nquotation if possible. The movements\\'s goals include the defence of conservative family\\nvalues and it regularly organises mass public weddings of couples brought together by the\\nchurch. It has links to many businesses, especially in publishing (Washington Times, UPI),\\nand has been accused by critics of being a cult, brainwashing members and enriching its\\nleaders, all of which it denies. It teaches that Rev. Moon received private revelations from\\nJesus, Mosus and Buddha to fight communism and promote world peace. "Moonie" is a\\nperjorative term for members of the Unification Church. We should not use it in copy and\\navoid it when possible in direct quotations.\\n\\nVirgin Mary: Use this title or the Madonna, not Our Lady except in titles such as Our Lady of\\nCzestochowa or in the names of churches. In Catholicism, do not confuse the Virgin Birth\\n(the dogma that Mary was a virgin when she gave birth to Jesus) with the Immaculate\\nConception (the dogma that Mary was the only human conceived without Original Sin).\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nyarmulke: Use skullcap.\\n\\nreluctant, reticent\\n\\nReluctant is unwilling or resisting. Reticent is sparing in communication. A gossip is reluctant to be\\nreticent.\\n\\nremain, remained\\n\\nAvoid in leads. There is always a more lively way of phrasing.\\n\\nremainder\\n\\nUse the rest.\\n\\nrendezvous\\n\\nSingular and plural. Prefer meeting or appointment.\\n\\nrepeat, repetition\\n\\nThe noun is repetition, the verb is repeat. John Smith tried to avoid a repetition of his blunder, not a\\nrepeat of his blunder. Repeat again is tautologous unless something is being said or done more\\nthan twice. Just repeat will do.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n383\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nrepechage\\n\\n384\\n\\nIn sport, a contest between runners-up, usually for a place in the final (especially in rowing).\\n\\nAn exact reproduction, in size and materials. Do not confuse with model.\\n\\nreported, reportedly\\n\\nIf you use the word reported without stating the source at once, you must give it in the next\\nsentence or paragraph. Do not use reportedly.\\n\\nDo not refer to just to reports, unconfirmed or otherwise. Specify where the reports are coming from\\nor originate.\\n\\nrepellent\\n\\nreplica\\n\\nreport\\n\\nReport on, not into.\\n\\nreports\\n\\nrequirements\\n\\nneeds is shorter and better.\\n\\nresistible, irresistible\\n\\nresponsible\\n\\nrestaurateur\\n\\nOne who runs a restaurant.\\n\\nOnly people are responsible for the effects of their actions. Things cause things to happen. Drought\\ncaused famine, not was responsible for famine.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n384\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n385\\n\\nUse a stronger, more direct verb, such as cause.\\n\\nresult in\\n\\nReuters name\\n\\nReuters is used as the name of our news organisation and as an adjective, e.g. a Reuters\\ncorrespondent.\\n\\nIf we need to describe the parent company in copy we should write Thomson Reuters, the global\\ninformation company.\\n\\nWe should refer to Reuters in exclusive interviews ("told Reuters") and in stories about the news\\norganisation, e.g. one mentioning the activities of AP, AFP and Reuters in covering a war.\\n\\nOur style permits use of an apostrophe only in connection with the name of the news organisation\\'s\\nfounder, e.g. Reuter\\'s birthplace in Kassel ... So write round the problem, e.g. The decision by\\nThomson Reuters to ... rather than Thomson Reuters decision to ...\\n\\nEditorial policy is to use Thomson Reuters for all references to the company in the text of stories.\\n\\nUse with caution. Use of the word implies (a) acceptance that the statement is true and (b) that the\\ninformation had previously been kept secret, which may not be the case.\\n\\nCapitalise religious titles when they immediately precede a personal name, otherwise use lower\\ncase, e.g. Bishop Thaddeus Smith, Dean Robert Jones, but the bishop, the dean. Use only the\\nsimplest and best-known titles at first reference, e.g. the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Dr John Smith rather\\nthan the Right Rev. John Smith.\\n\\nreveal\\n\\nrevenue\\n\\nNot revenues.\\n\\nReverend\\n\\nrevert back\\n\\nJust revert will do.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n385\\n\\n\\x0cRichter scale\\n\\nSee earthquakes.\\n\\nrifle, riffle\\n\\nright wing\\n\\nrigmarole\\n\\nroad map\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nrock(cid:25)n(cid:25)roll\\n\\nrocks\\n\\nRolls-Royce\\n\\nNote hyphen.\\n\\nRoma\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nrhinoceros, rhinoceroses\\n\\n386\\n\\nRifle is a weapon, or to plunder or ransack. Riffle is to stir lightly and rapidly.\\n\\nA right-winger, a right-wing politician, but the right wing of the political spectrum. Use with caution,\\nas with all political labels.\\n\\nAmericans throw rocks, but in most other places use throw stones.\\n\\nThe name of the people. Prefer to Gypsy, which is not used by the Roma themselves. Their\\nlanguage is Romany.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n386\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nRoman Catholic Church\\n\\n387\\n\\nThe head of the Roman Catholic Church is the Pope. Refer to a reigning Pope at first reference as\\ne.g. Pope Benedict and at subsequent references as the pope or the pontiff. A reigning Pope does\\nnot take Roman numerals after his name unless to omit them would cause confusion. Past Church\\nleaders should take Roman numerals after their name on first reference e.g. Pope Pius XII and may\\nbe referred to simply by their name e.g. Pius, on subsequent references unless to omit the numerals\\nwould cause confusion.\\n\\nThe Pope(cid:25)s appoints cardinals, his closest advisers. Those under 80 can enter a conclave to elect\\na new Pope. At first reference Cardinal John Doe. At subsequent references the cardinal or Doe. A\\nhigh-ranking member of the Church, such as a cardinal, an archbishop or a bishop, can be referred\\nto subsequently as a prelate. Monsignor is someone who has a rank between priest and bishop,\\ne.g. Monsignor Martin Smith. In some countries, such as Italy, France and Spain and in Latin\\nAmerica, monsignor is a catchall title used for monsignors, bishops, archbishops and cardinals, e.g.\\nthe Archbishop of Bogota, Monsignor Enrique Perez. Avoid this usage. Use Boston Archbishop\\nCharles Dust. For priests, use Father John Doe. Do not use the Rev., Reverend or Most Reverend.\\nThe Church hierarchy is: priest, monsignor, bishop, archbishop, cardinal, Pope. The Church\\ngovernment working in the Vatican is known as the Curia. Avoid using it as it needs to be explained.\\nThe Vatican technically refers to the city-state in Rome and the Holy See to the Church(cid:25)s central\\nadministration, but the terms have become interchangeable in common use. The Holy See(cid:25)s\\nambassadors around the world are known as papal nuncios and its embassies as nunciatures. If the\\nHoly See does not have formal diplomatic relations with a country the Pope(cid:25)s envoy to the church\\nin that country is an apostolic delegate.\\n\\nRomania\\n\\nRoman Numerals\\n\\nRoman Numeral to Decimal Conversion Table\\n\\n1 XXI\\n2 XXII\\n3 XXIII\\n4 XXIV\\n5 XXV\\n6 XXVI\\n7 XXVII\\n8 XXVIII\\n9 XXIX\\n10 XXX\\n11 XXXI\\n12 XXXII\\n13 XXXIII\\n\\n81\\n61 LXXXI\\n41 LXI\\n21 XLI\\nI\\n82\\n62 LXXXII\\n42 LXII\\n22 XLII\\nII\\n63 LXXXIII\\n83\\n23 XLIII\\n43 LXIII\\nIII\\n64 LXXXIV 84\\n24 XLIV 44 LXIV\\nIV\\n85\\n65 LXXXV\\n45 LXV\\n25 XLV\\nV\\n66 LXXXVI\\n86\\n26 XLVI\\n46 LXVI\\nVI\\n67 LXXXVII 87\\n27 XLVII 47 LXVII\\nVII\\n68 LXXXVIII 88\\n28 XLVIII 48 LXVIII\\nVIII\\n69 LXXXIX 89\\n29 XLIX 49 LXIX\\nIX\\n90\\n70 XC\\n50 LXX\\n30 L\\nX\\n91\\n71 XCI\\n51 LXXI\\n31 LI\\nXI\\n92\\n72 XCII\\n52 LXXII\\n32 LII\\nXII\\n93\\n53 LXXIII\\nXIII\\n73 XCIII\\n33 LIII\\n94\\n54 LXXIV 74 XCIV\\nXIV 14 XXXIV 34 LIV\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n387\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n388\\n\\n15 XXXV\\n16 XXXVI\\n\\nXV\\n35 LV\\n36 LVI\\nXVI\\nXVII 17 XXXVII 37 LVII\\nXVIII 18 XXXVIII 38 LVIII\\nXIX 19 XXXIX 39 LIX\\n40 LX\\nXX\\n\\n20 XL\\n\\n55 LXXV\\n75 XCV\\n76 XCVI\\n56 LXXVI\\n57 LXXVII 77 XCVII\\n58 LXXVIII 78 XCVIII\\n59 LXXIX 79 XCIX\\n60 LXXX\\n\\n80 C\\nD\\nM\\n\\n95\\n96\\n97\\n98\\n99\\n100\\n500\\n1000\\n\\nroofs\\n\\nroro\\n\\nroll on/roll off vehicle ferry.\\n\\nRosh Hashanah\\n\\nThe Jewish New Year festival.\\n\\nround up, roundup\\n\\nround robin\\n\\nrounding figures\\n\\nTwo words for the verb and one word for the noun.\\n\\nNot a newsletter or circular, but a petition where the signatures are in a circle so no individual can\\nbe identified as the instigator.\\n\\nRound off unwieldy figures, e.g. Japan produced 1.45 million cars in the six months ended ... not\\nJapan produced 1,453,123 cars ... As a rule round off millions to the nearest 10,000, thousands to\\nthe nearest 100, hundreds to the nearest 10. Figures are normally rounded to two significant\\ndecimals, with halves rounded upwards. Thus 15.564 becomes 15.56, while 15.565 becomes 15.57.\\nDo not round interest rates. Give them to the full number of decimal places supplied by the source\\nof the information. Round foreign exchange quotations to four decimal places, e.g. the dollar rose to\\n0.9784 euros. If a country adjusts its currency, any rate given must not be rounded off, e.g.\\nManchukistan announced a rate of 5.79831 manchuks to the dollar. Do not round company\\ndividends, e.g. the company announced a dividend of 0.123456 pence per share. Where totals do\\nnot add up because of rounding, this should be explained.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n388\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n389\\n\\nDo not use for argument or dispute.\\n\\nrow\\n\\nroyalty\\n\\nRetain the titles of rulers and their consorts at second reference, e.g. King Hussein, Queen Beatrix,\\nthe queen. The titles of other members of royal families can be dropped at second reference. In\\nBritain, for instance, Queen Elizabeth(cid:25)s husband is the Duke of Edinburgh, and at second\\nreference the duke or Prince Philip. Her eldest son is Prince Charles, Prince of Wales. Either title\\ncan be used at first reference; then Charles or the prince. Use Roman numerals in referring to\\nroyalty, e.g. Charles I, Louis XIV not Charles 1st or Charles the First.\\n\\nrubber stamp, rubber-stamp\\n\\nTwo words as a noun, hyphenated as a verb or adjective\\n\\nA word with negative overtones in a political context. Use govern as a verb.\\n\\nUse for candidates in a presidential election For those in a parliamentary one, say stand.\\n\\nRundown is the noun (but prefer review or summary). The verb is run down and the adjective is\\nrun-down.\\n\\nrule\\n\\nrun for office\\n\\nrundown, run down\\n\\nrunner-up, runners-up\\n\\nrush hour, rush-hour\\n\\nTwo words for the noun, hyphenated for the adjective.\\n\\nrushed to hospital\\n\\nA clich\'c3\'a9. Use taken to hospital or treated in hospital.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n389\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n390\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n390\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n391\\n\\nS\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 saccharin, saccharine\\n2 Sahara\\n3 Sahel\\n4 Sahrawi\\n5 Saigon\\n6 Saint\\n7 Sahrawi\\n8 Saakashvili\\n9 salable, salably\\n10 salutary\\n11 Salvadorean, not Salvadoran.\\n12 salvo, salvos\\n13 sanction\\n14 SARS\\n15 sat\\n16 savings and loans associations (U.S.)\\n17 saviour, savior in American style\\n18 Scandinavia\\n19 sceptic, but in American style skeptic\\n20 scheme\\n21 Scottish names\\n22 screen saver\\n23 SDRs\\n24 SEALS\\n25 seasons\\n26 Seattle\\n27 second guess\\n28 second-hand\\n29 second lieutenant\\n30 Second World War\\n31 Secret Service\\n32 secretary-general\\n33 sector\\n34 Security Council\\n35 see, saw\\n36 seize\\n37 selloff\\n38 semi\\n39 semiannual\\n40 semi-final\\n41 Senate\\n42 sentence length\\n43 separate\\n44 Sephardim\\n45 Sept. 11\\n46 septuagenarian\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n391\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n392\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 Serie A\\n48 serried\\n49 set point\\n50 Sevastopol\\n51 serviceable\\n52 sewage, sewerage\\n53 sexist language\\n54 shake-up, shake up\\n55 shall, will\\n56 sharia\\n57 sheikh\\n58 sheriff (U.S.)\\n59 sherpas\\n60 Shia\\n61 Shimla, not Simla, India\\n62 ship tonnage\\n63 ships(cid:25) names\\n64 shoeshine, shoestring\\n65 shoo-in, not shoe-in.\\n66 short ton\\n67 short-covering\\n68 short-lived, short-sighted\\n69 shutdown\\n70 side effect\\n71 side by side\\n72 siege\\n73 Sierra Nevada\\n74 silicon, silicone\\n75 Simla\\n76 since\\n77 single out\\n78 Sinhalese\\n79 Sinn Fein\\n80 siphon\\n81 sister-in-law, sisters-in-law\\n82 situation\\n83 sizable\\n84 ski, skiing, skied, skier\\n85 skilful\\n86 skills\\n87 skipper\\n88 slam\\n89 slang\\n90 slew\\n91 slump\\n92 Smithsonian Institution, not Institute.\\n93 smoulder, but smolder in American style.\\n94 sneaked, not snuck\\n95 so as to\\n96 so-called\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n392\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n393\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n97 Social Security\\n98 socialist\\n99 software\\n100 Somali\\n101 some\\n102 song titles\\n103 sophisticated\\n104 sorcerer\\n105 SOS\\n106 South Asia\\n107 space age\\n108 space centre, but American style is space center\\n109 spaceship\\n110 space shuttle\\n111 spacewalk\\n112 Spanish names\\n113 special\\n114 species\\n115 speeds\\n116 spelled, misspelled, not spelt\\n117 spelling\\n118 spill, spilling, spilled, not spilt.\\n119 spin off, spinoff\\n120 spokesman, spokeswoman\\n121 spoonful, spoonfuls, not spoonsful or spoons full.\\n122 sports events titles\\n123 sports metaphors\\n124 sprang, sprung\\n125 square leg, square-leg\\n126 stadiums, not stadia.\\n127 stagehand, one word\\n128 stanch, staunch\\n129 Star Wars\\n130 startup\\n131 star/superstar\\n132 state names\\n133 station wagon, two words\\n134 stationary, stationery\\n135 statute mile\\n136 stepping stone, two words\\n137 stretcher\\n138 stealth\\n139 storey, storeys\\n140 storms\\n141 strait, straight\\n142 straitjacket\\n143 strait-laced\\n144 strategic\\n145 stratum, strata\\n146 stricture\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n393\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n394\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n147 strike\\n148 strong-arm\\n149 stupefy, stupefying, stupefaction\\n150 stupor\\n151 sub\\n152 submachinegun\\n153 subpoena, subpoenaing, subpoenaed\\n154 subprime\\n155 subsequent to, subsequently\\n156 substitute for\\n157 successive\\n158 successor\\n159 successfully\\n160 such as, like\\n161 Sudan, not the Sudan.\\n162 sufficient\\n163 sue, suing, sued\\n164 suit, suite\\n165 summit\\n166 summon, summons\\n167 Sunni/Shi(cid:25)ite\\n168 super\\n169 superlatives\\n170 supersede\\n171 supervisor\\n172 supremo\\n173 Surinam, not Suriname\\n174 surrounded\\n175 SUV\\n176 Swastika\\n177 swath, swathe\\n178 swat, swot\\n179 syllabus, syllabuses\\n180 sync\\n181 synthesise, synthesizer, but in American style synthesize,\\nsynthesizer\\n182 Szczecin, not Stettin, Poland.\\n\\nsaccharin, saccharine\\n\\nThe noun is saccharin, the adjective is saccharine.\\n\\nSahara\\n\\nNot Sahara Desert (cid:19) sahara means desert in Arabic.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n394\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n395\\n\\nA belt of countries across Africa south of the Sahara, comprising Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Chad,\\nGambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal and Sudan.\\n\\nThe people of the Western Saharan republic proclaimed by Polisario guerrillas fighting for\\nindependence from Morocco. Its full name is the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.\\n\\nNow Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.\\n\\nSahel\\n\\nSahrawi\\n\\nSaigon\\n\\nSaint\\n\\nUse St. with full point.\\n\\nSahrawi\\n\\nSaakashvili\\n\\nsalable, salably\\n\\nsalutary\\n\\nThe people of the Western Saharan republic proclaimed by Polisario guerrillas fighting for\\nindependence from Morocco. Its full name is the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.\\n\\nMikheil, not Mikhail, is the correct Georgian form of the president\\'s first name.\\n\\nNot salutory, for promoting health or safety, or wholesome. But salutatory, the adjective for a\\ngreeting.\\n\\nSalvadorean, not Salvadoran.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n395\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nsalvo, salvos\\n\\n396\\n\\nAvoid sanction as a verb. It has conflicting meanings, to approve and to punish.\\n\\nSevere Acute Respiratory Syndrome. A flu-like and potentially fatal viral disease. Use SARS at first\\nreference and spell out the full name lower in the story.\\n\\nsanction\\n\\nSARS\\n\\nsat\\n\\nSat, or was seated, or was sitting, but not was sat.\\n\\nsavings and loans associations (U.S.)\\n\\nNot banks. Use associations on second reference.\\n\\nsaviour, savior in American style\\n\\nScandinavia\\n\\nThis comprises Denmark, Norway and Sweden. The Nordic countries are these three plus Finland\\nand Iceland. Because of the danger of confusion, list the countries even if you use Nordic or\\nScandinavian in a lead for the sake of brevity.\\n\\nsceptic, but in American style skeptic\\n\\nUse the noun with caution and prefer (cid:28)plan(cid:29) or (cid:28)initiative(cid:29). The noun has a neutral meaning in\\nBritish English but can be pejorative in American English.\\n\\nscheme\\n\\nScottish names\\n\\nBe particularly careful with names beginning Mac. They could be e.g. MacLaren, Maclaren,\\nMcClaren. check and check again.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n396\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n397\\n\\nSpecial drawing rights are international reserve assets created by the IMF and member countries to\\nsupplement existing reserves. Based on a basket of the major traded currencies and are the IMF\\nunit of account for international transactions. The reference currency basket has specific weightings\\nof major traded currencies. The latest value is on www.imf.org.\\n\\nA special operations force of the U.S. Navy. The acronym is for sea, air, land.\\n\\nBe careful in writing of summer and winter, spring and autumn (fall), since the seasons are reversed\\nnorth and south of the equator. Seasons are not capitalised unless part of the formal name of an\\nevent. Be specific about when something happened rather than use the season. e.g. The transport\\nstrike last August ... rather than ... The transport strike last summer.\\n\\nscreen saver\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nSDRs\\n\\nSEALS\\n\\nseasons\\n\\nSeattle\\n\\nStands alone in datelines.\\n\\nsecond guess\\n\\nNoun. Hyphenate as a verb\\n\\nsecond-hand\\n\\nWith hyphen.\\n\\nsecond lieutenant\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n397\\n\\n\\x0c398\\n\\nIn the United States, a federal agency administered by the Department of Homeland Security. The\\nSecret Service Uniformed Division protects the president\\'s residence and offices and embassies in\\nWashington.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nSecond World War\\n\\nUse World War Two, not WWII.\\n\\nSecret Service\\n\\nsecretary-general\\n\\nHyphenated. Capitalise if part of a formal title.\\n\\nsector\\n\\nIndustry is better.\\n\\nSecurity Council\\n\\nThe 15-member United Nations Security Council in New York is the body that takes many of the\\ndecisions on U.N. action around the world, often through numbered resolutions, e.g. Resolution\\n649. It consists of five permanent members with the power of veto over any resolution (cid:19) Britain,\\nChina, France, Russia and the United States. There are also 10 non-permanent members of the\\nSecurity Council, made up of other U.N. countries which serve in rotation, representing different\\nareas of the world. The Security Council presidency rotates monthly, by English alphabetical listing\\nof its member states.\\n\\nThe U.N. Security Council becomes the council (lower case) at second reference.\\n\\nInanimate objects do not have the power of sight. Do not write The game saw several violent\\nincidents; the club(cid:25)s progress has seen them climb to seventh in the table. The device is less\\nabsurd but similarly lazy when overused to apply to people, Bill McGreer saw his shot go wide.\\n\\nsee, saw\\n\\nseize\\n\\nselloff\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n398\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n399\\n\\nsemi\\n\\nIn general, no hyphen.\\n\\nsemiannual\\n\\nPrefer twice-yearly or twice a year.\\n\\nsemi-final\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nSenate\\n\\nCapitalised.\\n\\nsentence length\\n\\nseparate\\n\\nSephardim\\n\\nSept. 11\\n\\nseptuagenarian\\n\\nSentences should generally be short but, to avoid a staccato effect, vary their length. Avoid complex\\nconstructions. A sentence with more than one subordinate clauses can be hard to follow and difficult\\nto translate.\\n\\nJews of Spanish or Portuguese descent as opposed to Ashkenazim who are Jews of East or\\nCentral European descent. Adjectives Sephardic, Ashkenazic.\\n\\nThe date can stand alone without reference to the Twin Towers or the year 2001, as can the\\nalternative reference 9/11.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n399\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n400\\n\\nItalian first division soccer. Capitalised.\\n\\nSerie A\\n\\nserried\\n\\nClose-pressed, packed, not just organised or in neat rows.\\n\\nset point\\n\\nTwo words in tennis scoring.\\n\\nSevastopol\\n\\nNot Sebastepol, Crimea.\\n\\nserviceable\\n\\nsewage, sewerage\\n\\nsexist language\\n\\nSewage is waste and sewerage is the system that removes it.\\n\\nDo not use language that perpetuates the stereotype of women. Such language is offensive, out of\\ndate and often simply inaccurate. Sexist references should be avoided, as should such linguistic\\nabsurdities as creating the crime of peopleslaughter. Do not refer to gender, a woman(cid:25)s looks,\\nhairstyle or clothing unless they are details relevant to the story and similar expresssions would be\\nused for men.\\n\\nshake-up, shake up\\n\\nThe noun is a shake-up, the verb is to shake up.\\n\\nshall, will\\n\\nStrictly shall and should are reserved for the pronouns I and we, while will and would are used with\\nyou, he, she and they. If the action is performed with decided intention then shall and should can be\\nused with you, he, she and they. They shall go to the ball no matter what their mothers say. The\\ndistinction between shall and will varies from country to country and can probably be ignored.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n400\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n401\\n\\nIslamic religious law (note lower case s). Sharia law is tautologous. Write sharia, Islamic law.\\n\\nsharia\\n\\nsheikh\\n\\nNot sheik or shaikh. A courtesy title in Saudi Arabia but avoid in this context. The real sheikhs there\\nare religious figures and sheikh should be used at first reference. Elsewhere in the Gulf it applies to\\nmembers of ruling families as well as religious figures and should be used at first reference.\\n\\nSenior officials from G7/G8 countries who meet three or four times before each summit to agree\\ntopics to be discussed and to draft the final communiqu\'c3\'a9. Named after the Himalayan people\\nrenowned for their mountaineering ability who are often employed as guides on expeditions. Best\\navoided as jargon or explained if you need to use it.\\n\\nsheriff (U.S.)\\n\\nCapitalise as a title before a name.\\n\\nsherpas\\n\\nShia\\n\\nUse Shi(cid:25)ite unless in a direct quote.\\n\\nShimla, not Simla, India\\n\\nship tonnage\\n\\nSee tonnage.\\n\\nships(cid:25) names\\n\\nDo not use HMS or USS to designate British or American warships if the nationality of the ship is\\nalready clear. Write the British frigate Battleaxe not the British frigate HMS Battleaxe. But in\\ndatelines write, for instance, ABOARD HMS BATTLEAXE. Routinely check the names of ships in\\nJane(cid:25)s Fighting Ships, Lloyd(cid:25)s Register or the weekly Lloyd(cid:25)s Shipping Index. Do not put\\nquotation marks round the names of ships. Always use neuter pronouns.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n401\\n\\n\\x0c402\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nshoeshine, shoestring\\n\\nshoo-in, not shoe-in.\\n\\nshort-lived, short-sighted\\n\\nshort ton\\n\\nSee ton, tonne.\\n\\nshort-covering\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nHyphenated.\\n\\nshutdown\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nside effect\\n\\nTwo words, no hyphen.\\n\\nside by side\\n\\nsiege\\n\\nSierra Nevada\\n\\nNot Sierra Nevada mountains (tautologous).\\n\\nAs an adverb, no hyphens e.g. they walked side by side.. Hyphenate as an adjective, e.g. The\\nstories received side-by-side display.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n402\\n\\n\\x0c403\\n\\nBy definition, this phrase should be used only for single examples. Do not write, for instance, He\\nsingled out Britain, France and Italy for blame.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nsilicon, silicone\\n\\nSilicon chips but silicone implants.\\n\\nUse Shimla, India.\\n\\nSimla\\n\\nsince\\n\\nDo not use to mean because.\\n\\nsingle out\\n\\nSinhalese\\n\\nA major ethnic group in Sri Lanka.\\n\\nSinn Fein\\n\\nDo not use Sinn Fein/IRA.\\n\\nsister-in-law, sisters-in-law\\n\\nsiphon\\n\\nNot syphon.\\n\\nsituation\\n\\nsizable\\n\\nThe word can usually be dispensed with, as in a crisis situation, a debt situation, a flood situation.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n403\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nski, skiing, skied, skier\\n\\n404\\n\\nUse only of fishing vessels. Otherwise captain.\\n\\nskilful\\n\\nskills\\n\\nskipper\\n\\nJargon. Avoid if possible.\\n\\nSlang. Prefer said.\\n\\nslam\\n\\nslang\\n\\nslew\\n\\nslump\\n\\nA sudden or serious fall in economic activity or prices.\\n\\nSmithsonian Institution, not Institute.\\n\\nsmoulder, but smolder in American style.\\n\\nAvoid slang not be readily understood outside the English speaking world or your own country. It\\ncreates problems for translators. If a vivid quote contains slang, explain it in brackets or give a\\nparaphrased version, e.g. He(cid:25)s in the cat-bird seat (in a favoured position) (cid:28) or Saying Smith was\\nin a favoured position, he added: He(cid:25)s in the cat-bird seat.(cid:29)\\n\\nIt is colloquial and a clich\'c3\'a9. If you are trying to say a large number or amount then express it more\\nprecisely.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n404\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nsneaked, not snuck\\n\\n405\\n\\nCapitalise when referring to the U.S. system.\\n\\nCapitalise only when part of a proper name.\\n\\nso as to\\n\\nUse to.\\n\\nso-called\\n\\nAdjective and adverb.\\n\\nSocial Security\\n\\nsocialist\\n\\nsoftware\\n\\nSomali\\n\\nNot Somalian.\\n\\nsome\\n\\nsong titles\\n\\nCapitalise, without quotation marks, e.g. Windows, Internet Explorer. Use quotation marks for\\ncomputer games, e.g. (cid:28)Bust a Move: Dance Summit(cid:29).\\n\\nWrite about 500 people rather than some 500 people. As an indication that a figure is an\\napproximation, some is more likely to confuse translators than about.\\n\\nCapitalise every word in the title apart from conjunctions, articles, particles and short prepositions,\\ne.g. "All You Need Is Love", "Son of a Preacher Man".\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n405\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nsophisticated\\n\\n406\\n\\nA modish word when applied to weapons. Most weapon systems are sophisticated. If you just mean\\nmodern, say so.\\n\\nAn appeal for rescue. No spaces, no points.\\n\\nsorcerer\\n\\nSOS\\n\\nSouth Asia\\n\\nspace age\\n\\nUse this for the region that includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.\\n\\nBegan with the launch of Sputnik 1 on Oct. 4, 1957.\\n\\nspace centre, but American style is space center\\n\\nUse in stories to describe Cape Canaveral and other spacecraft launch facilities. Do not use\\nspaceport\\n\\nLower case unless part of a proper name.\\n\\nspaceship\\n\\nspace shuttle\\n\\nspacewalk\\n\\nOne word\\n\\nSpanish names\\n\\nSee Hispanic names.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n406\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n407\\n\\nAvoid. It rarely adds value. Instead tell us directly what is special about the person or the event.\\n\\nspecial\\n\\nspecies\\n\\nspeeds\\n\\nspelling\\n\\nSame word for singular and plural.\\n\\nUse numerals for speeds 7 mph, 7 to 9 knots.\\n\\nspelled, misspelled, not spelt\\n\\nThere are two generally accepted spelling systems for the English language. Our global client base\\nis accustomed to reading both. Copy orginating in the Americas should follow North American\\nspelling conventions, such as color, defense, aging, caliber, etc. Copy orginating elsewhere should\\nfollow British spelling norms. At all times stick to official spellings for American names and titles,\\nsuch as U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and U.S. Centres for Disease Control and\\nPrevention. Watch out for regional words that non-English language services and clients will find\\ndifficult to understand and translate. In American sports coverage, use American terms and\\nspellings e.g. center, maneuver, defense, offense, ballclub, postseason, preseason, lineman, line\\nup, halfback, doubleheader.\\n\\nspill, spilling, spilled, not spilt.\\n\\nspin off, spinoff\\n\\nSpin off is the verb, spinoff the noun.\\n\\nspokesman, spokeswoman\\n\\nnot spokesperson. If the sex of the person is not known then use representative.\\n\\nspoonful, spoonfuls, not spoonsful or spoons full.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n407\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nsports events titles\\n\\n408\\n\\nUse lower case for sport names, junior, men(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s, championship, tournament, meeting,\\nmatch, test, race, game etc. Use upper case for an event title e.g. French Open tennis\\nchampionships, Dutch Open golf tournament. Use singular championship when one title is at stake\\nand plural championships for more than one, U.S. Open tennis championships (men(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s,\\ndoubles). Use the name of the sport before championship, tournament etc.\\n\\nThink twice before using a metaphor drawn from sport. They are often particular to a single sport or\\nculture and are difficult to translate. Not everyone knows what you mean by bowling a googly, a full\\ncourt press or standing up to the plate.\\n\\nsports metaphors\\n\\nsprang, sprung\\n\\nSprang is the past tense. The crew sprang to attention. Sprung is the past participle. Spring has\\nsprung.\\n\\nsquare leg, square-leg\\n\\nTwo words for the fielding position in cricket, at square leg, but hyphenated as an adjective,\\nsquare-leg umpire.\\n\\nstadiums, not stadia.\\n\\nstagehand, one word\\n\\nstanch, staunch\\n\\nUse stanch for the verb, staunch for the adjective. The staunch supporter stanched the flow of\\nblood.\\n\\nStar Wars\\n\\nUse quote marks when it means the U.S. Strategic Defence Initiatve.\\n\\nstartup\\n\\nOne word for a new business.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n408\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nstar/superstar\\n\\nAvoid. Do not use in sports reporting.\\n\\nstate names\\n\\n409\\n\\nAbbreviate the names of states in the United States only in datelines. In text, spell out the names in\\nfull.\\n\\nstation wagon, two words\\n\\nstationary, stationery\\n\\nStationary is fixed or still. Stationery is writing material.\\n\\nstepping stone, two words\\n\\nDo not use as a verb. Bill Bloggs was carried off, not stretchered off.\\n\\nDo not capitalize when describing aircraft or weapons. See military.\\n\\nstatute mile\\n\\nAbout 1.6 km.\\n\\nstretcher\\n\\nstealth\\n\\nstorey, storeys\\n\\nstorms\\n\\nThe third storey of a building. But tell me a different story. In American style, story for both uses.\\n\\nA storm is more severe than a gale. The most severe of all storms is a cyclone, in which winds blow\\nspirally inwards towards a centre of low barometric pressure. The word cyclone is used of such\\nstorms in the Indian Ocean and Australia. In the China Seas and West Pacific such a storm is a\\ntyphoon and in the Caribbean and on the east coast of the United States a hurricane. A tornado is a\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n409\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n410\\n\\nviolent whirling windstorm with a very narrow focus, common in the United States. In many\\ncountries meteorological offices give tropical storms the names of men and women in alphabetical\\nsequence. Japan numbers them sequentially, beginning afresh on January 1 each year. To be\\nrecognised as typhoon, a tropical storm has to have winds of 17 metres (56 feet) per second or\\nstronger. The Beaufort scale measures wind speed.\\n\\na strait is a narrow channel joining two larger bodies of water; in dire straits or in desperate straits is\\na clich\'c3\'a9 for someone in distress. The home straight is the final part of a racecourse between the\\nlast bend and the finishing post.\\n\\nNarrow in principles, or prudish. Not straight-laced.\\n\\nThe distinction between strategy (cid:19) the conduct of a military campaign (cid:19) and tactics (cid:19) manoeuvring\\nin the presence of the enemy (cid:19) is worth preserving. Do not abuse strategic by making it mean\\nsimply important. A mountain pass, a bridge or even a building is of strategic importance if its\\npossession could affect the conduct of a campaign as a whole. If it is only of local importance its\\nvalue is tactical.\\n\\nstrait, straight\\n\\nstraitjacket\\n\\nstrait-laced\\n\\nstrategic\\n\\nstratum, strata\\n\\nOne stratum, several strata.\\n\\nstricture\\n\\nstrike\\n\\nAdverse criticism, or a binding or closure. The first meaning is the one most commonly used.\\n\\nDo not use as a transitive verb. For strike action say strike.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n410\\n\\n\\x0c411\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nstrong-arm\\n\\nHyphenated as verb and adjective.\\n\\nstupefy, stupefying, stupefaction\\n\\nstupor\\n\\nsub\\n\\nIn general, no hyphen as a prefix.\\n\\nsubmachinegun\\n\\nOne word. See also Military\\n\\nsubpoena, subpoenaing, subpoenaed\\n\\nsubsequent to, subsequently\\n\\nsubprime\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nUse after or later.\\n\\nsubstitute for\\n\\nsuccessive\\n\\nPreferable to straight.\\n\\nsuccessor\\n\\nThe verb substitute takes the preposition for. Do not confuse with replace with or replace by.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n411\\n\\n\\x0cCan often be excised, as in They successfully sailed round the world.\\n\\n412\\n\\nSuch is used when offering an example. Like means similar to. Politicians like Brown have short\\ntempers and long memories, but Players such as Smith, Patel and Jones are essential in the team.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nsuccessfully\\n\\nsuch as, like\\n\\nSudan, not the Sudan.\\n\\nsufficient\\n\\nGenerally prefer enough.\\n\\nsue, suing, sued\\n\\nNot sueing.\\n\\nsuit, suite\\n\\nsummit\\n\\nA suit of clothes or to follow suit in cards. However, a suite of followers, rooms or furniture or play a\\nsuite of tunes.\\n\\nUse this term only for meetings of heads of state or government. You cannot have a summit of\\nforeign ministers or of trade union leaders. Do not use mini-summit. Two leaders can make a\\nsummit.\\n\\nsummon, summons\\n\\nThe verb is to summon. The noun is a summons.\\n\\nSunni/Shi(cid:25)ite\\n\\nMuslims are split into two main groups, Sunni and Shi\\'ite. Sunnis are estimated about 80 percent of\\nall Muslims and include most Arabs. Sunnis and Shi\\'ites draw spiritual inspiration from the same\\nsource, the Prophet Mohammad, but Shi\\'ite theologians have much greater freedom of\\ninterpretation. As well as adhering to the revelations of the Muslim holy book, the Koran, Sunnis\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n412\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n413\\n\\nfollow the Prophet Mohammad\\'s rule of life (the Sunna) and traditions based on his sayings. Shi\\'ites\\nhold that the succession to the Prophet should remain in his own family. Since the direct line was\\nbroken not long after the death of Mohammad, Shi\\'ites believe there is a Hidden Imam (spiritual\\nleader) who will reappear one day. In Iran, where Shi\\'ites are predominant, the revolutionary leader\\nAyatollah Ruhollah Khomeini was considered the Imam\\'s deputy on earth. His successor as\\nSupreme Leader holds the same authority Rivalry between Sunnis and Shi\\'ites extends back to the\\nyears following the death of the Prophet Mohammad, when Islam first split over the question of who\\nwas the rightful successor. Some hardline Sunnis regard Shi\\'ites as heretics and Shi\\'ite minority\\ncommunities in some parts of the Middle East complain of discrimination\\n\\nBe careful with first, largest, biggest, highest and oldest because such descriptions are often\\nchallenged. Have a source for them. but be particularly sceptical about news releases claiming\\nrecords, especially auction records.Avoid similar value judgments. Do not call a company giant,\\nbecause many companies are giants in one way or another. When does a company become a\\ngiant?\\n\\nsuper\\n\\nIn general, no hyphen as a prefix.\\n\\nsuperlatives\\n\\nsupersede\\n\\nsupervisor\\n\\nsupremo\\n\\nSurinam, not Suriname\\n\\nFormer Dutch colony in South America.\\n\\nsurrounded\\n\\nDo not use the term for a supreme commander, which is not widely understood outside Britain.\\n\\nCompletely surrounded is tautologous, as is surrounded on all sides. it is impossible to be\\nsurrounded on two or three sides.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n413\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n414\\n\\nA swath is a strip cut by a scythe or mowing machine. Swathe is to wrap, or a binding or bandage.\\nCut a swath, but swathe someone in love.\\n\\nSUV\\n\\nSport (singular) Utility Vehicle.\\n\\nSwastika\\n\\nswath, swathe\\n\\nswat, swot\\n\\nSwat a wasp but swot for your exams.\\n\\nsyllabus, syllabuses\\n\\nsync\\n\\nPrefer to \\'synch\\' as a way to shorten synchronisation, as in out of sync.\\n\\nsynthesise, synthesizer, but in American style synthesize, synthesizer\\n\\nSzczecin, not Stettin, Poland.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n414\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n415\\n\\nT\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 table\\n2 tablespoon, tablespoonfuls\\n3 take over (verb), takeover (noun)\\n4 Talib/Taliban\\n5 Tangier, not Tangiers, Morocco.\\n6 tankan\\n7 targeted\\n8 Tatar\\n9 tattoos, tattoing, tattoed\\n10 tautology\\n11 tax avoidance/evasion\\n12 Tbilisi, not Tiflis, Georgia.\\n13 teammate\\n14 teams\\n15 teaspoon, teaspoonful, teaspoonfuls\\n16 teenage, teenager\\n17 terminate\\n18 teargas\\n19 Tehran, not Teheran, Iran.\\n20 Tel Aviv\\n21 television station/network\\n22 television series/season\\n23 temblor\\n24 temperatures\\n25 Temple Mount/al-Haram al-Sharif\\n26 temporary respite\\n27 tenses\\n28 terrorism\\n29 Thai names\\n30 that, which\\n31 theatre, but in American style theater\\n32 their, there, they\\'re\\n33 there is, there are\\n34 Thimphu\\n35 Third World\\n36 therefore\\n37 third man\\n38 thrash, thresh\\n39 threshold\\n40 Tiananmen Square, not Tienanmen, in Beijing\\n41 tiebreak\\n42 Tigray\\n43 Timbuktu\\n44 time\\n45 titbit, but in American style tidbit\\n46 titles\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n415\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n416\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n47 titles of sports events\\n48 titleholder\\n49 together\\n50 told reporters\\n51 told Reuters\\n52 tomato, tomatoes\\n53 ton, tonne\\n54 tonnage of ships\\n55 top\\n56 topspin\\n57 tornado, tornadoes\\n58 torpedo\\n59 tortuous, torturous\\n60 Tory, Tories\\n61 total, totalling, totalled, but in American style total, totaling,\\ntotaled\\n62 total annihilation\\n63 Touareg\\n64 towards\\n65 trademark\\n66 trade union, trade unions, not trades unions.\\n67 traffic\\n68 tragedy\\n69 Transdniestria\\n70 trans-\\n71 transfer, transferring, transferred\\n72 transparency\\n73 transpired\\n74 transportation\\n75 transsexual\\n76 transvestite\\n77 travel, travelled, travelling, traveller\\n78 travelogue\\n79 treasury bill\\n80 trillion\\n81 triplets\\n82 Trojan horse, Trojan Wars\\n83 troop, troupe\\n84 troubled\\n85 truck\\n86 true facts\\n87 try and\\n88 Tsar, not Czar\\n89 T-shirt, not teeshirt\\n90 tsunami\\n91 tuberculosis\\n92 TUC\\n93 turgid, turbid\\n94 Tuvalu\\n95 TV\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n416\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n417\\n\\nDo not use as a verb. It has conflicting meanings -- to put a bill forward for discussion and to\\npostpone discussion of it.\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n96 twice\\n97 typhoon\\n98 tyre\\n99 Tyrol, Austria\\n\\ntable\\n\\ntablespoon, tablespoonfuls\\n\\ntake over (verb), takeover (noun)\\n\\nTalib/Taliban\\n\\nTangier, not Tangiers, Morocco.\\n\\ntankan\\n\\ntargeted\\n\\nTatar\\n\\nSoviet ethnic group. Not Tartar.\\n\\ntattoos, tattoing, tattoed\\n\\nRadical Sunni Muslim movement that ruled most of Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. From the Arabic\\nfor (cid:28)student(cid:29) (Talib). The plural is Taliban.\\n\\nA Bank of Japan report on sentiment among Japanese companies, based on a quarterly survey\\ncovering some 10,000 companies.\\n\\nNot targetted. Except in a military context, prefer aimed at or directed at, or describe exactly what is\\nbeing done to whom.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n417\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ntautology\\n\\n418\\n\\nSaying the same thing twice, as in \\'a new record\\' where the word new is unnecessary. Others are\\n\\'originally built\\', \\'future risks\\', \\'weather conditions\\', \\'in a westerly direction\\'.\\n\\ntax avoidance/evasion\\n\\nTax avoidance is legal, tax evasion is illegal. Be specific.\\n\\nTbilisi, not Tiflis, Georgia.\\n\\nTeams and clubs are used as plural nouns, except in American sport. Fulham buy new Dutch\\nstriker. Manchester United said they would not rush into the transfer market.\\n\\nteaspoon, teaspoonful, teaspoonfuls\\n\\nteenage, teenager\\n\\nteammate\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nteams\\n\\nterminate\\n\\nUse stop or end.\\n\\nteargas\\n\\none word.\\n\\nTel Aviv\\n\\nTehran, not Teheran, Iran.\\n\\nTel Aviv is not the capital of Israel and the status of Jerusalem is contentious. Do not use the name\\nof either city as a synonym for Israel, as in the Jerusalem government, or refer to Jerusalem as the\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n418\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ncapital of Israel.\\n\\ntelevision station/network\\n\\n419\\n\\nA televison station is a single, local broadcasting entity whereas a network is a group of affiliated\\nstations that transmit the same programmes during certain hours and whose programmes appears\\non a single channel in each market.\\n\\ntelevision series/season\\n\\nThe season of a show is different from a series, e.g. The television series "Friends" is in its third\\nseason.\\n\\nAn American word for earthquake, not trembler.\\n\\ntemblor\\n\\ntemperatures\\n\\nExpress in Celsius (the same scale as Centigrade) and Fahrenheit, using the scale of the country\\ninvolved first, with conversion in brackets. Spell in full at first reference, abbreviating to C and F\\nsubsequently, 25 Celsius, 40C. Freezing point in Celsius is 0 degrees, in Fahrenheit 32 degrees.\\nConvert from Celsius to Fahrenheit for temperatures above zero by multiplying by 9, dividing by 5\\nand adding 32, e.g. 20 Celsius (68 Fahrenheit). For temperatures below zero multiply by nine,\\ndivide by five and subtract from 32, e.g. minus 15C (5F), minus 20C (minus 4F). Convert from\\nFahrenheit to Celsius for temperatures above 32 by subtracting 32, multiplying by five and dividing\\nby nine. For temperatures below freezing take the total number of degrees by which the\\ntemperature is below 32, multiply by five and divide by nine, e.g. minus 8F is 40 below freezing, 40\\nx 5/9 gives you 22, therefore minus 22C.\\n\\nTemple Mount/al-Haram al-Sharif\\n\\nA 14-hectare (34-acre) area of the Old City of Jerusalem sacred to Jews and Muslims. It is the site\\nof the biblical Jewish temple destroyed in AD 70. Many Jews believe the Western Wall below the\\nMount, Judaism(cid:25)s holiest place, is a remnant of the retaining wall of the ancient temple site.\\nMuslims believe the Prophet Mohammad ascended into heaven from this place. They built the\\nal-Aqsa mosque and the gilded Dome of the Rock on the site and called it al-Haram al-Sharif (the\\nNoble Sanctuary). It is the third holiest Islamic shrine after Mecca and Medina.\\n\\ntemporary respite\\n\\nTautological. A respite is by definition temporary.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n419\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n420\\n\\ntenses\\n\\nSee writing.\\n\\nterrorism\\n\\nThai names\\n\\nthat, which\\n\\nWe may refer without attribution to terrorism and counter-terrorism in general but do not refer to\\nspecific events as terrorism. Nor do we use the adjective word terrorist without attribution to qualify\\nspecific individuals, groups or events. Terrorism and terrorist must be retained when quoting\\nsomeone in direct speech. When quoting someone in indirect speech, care must be taken with\\nsentence structure to ensure it is entirely clear that they are the source\\'s words and not a label.\\nTerrorism and terrorist should not be used as single words in inverted commas (e.g. "terrorist") or\\npreceded by so-called (e.g. a so-called terrorist attack) since that can be taken to imply a value\\njudgment. Use a fuller quote if necessary. Terror as in terror attack or terror cell should be avoided,\\nexcept in direct quotes.\\n\\nReport the subjects of news stories objectively, their actions, identity and background. Aim for a\\ndispassionate use of language so that individuals, organisations and governments can make their\\nown judgment on the basis of facts. Seek to use more specific terms like (cid:28)bomber(cid:29), or (cid:28)bombing(cid:29),\\n(cid:28)hijacker(cid:29) or (cid:28)hijacking(cid:29), (cid:28)attacker(cid:29) or (cid:28)attacks(cid:29), (cid:28)gunman(cid:29) or (cid:28)gunmen(cid:29) etc.\\n\\nThe first name is used alone at second reference, e.g. Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan said ...\\nChatichai added ...\\n\\nUse that in defining clauses, e.g. the cup that cheers. Reserve which for informative clauses, e.g.\\nthe cup, which was blue, was full of water. Avoid the unnecessary use of that as in He said that he\\nwas going to &\\n\\ntheatre, but in American style theater\\n\\nUnless it is part of a proper name.\\n\\ntheir, there, they\\'re\\n\\nKnow the difference.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n420\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nthere is, there are\\n\\n421\\n\\nUsuallly unnecessary, e.g. There are two choices facing the captain can be changed to The captain\\nfaces two choices.\\n\\nA term to be avoided. Use developing countries or poor countries instead.\\n\\nThimphu\\n\\nNot Thimpu, Bhutan.\\n\\nThird World\\n\\ntherefore\\n\\nUse so.\\n\\nthird man\\n\\nTwo words for fielding position in cricket.\\n\\nthrash, thresh\\n\\nthreshold\\n\\nNot threshhold, but withhold not withold.\\n\\nThrash means to beat soundly, thresh to beat out, e.g. grain, corn.\\n\\nTiananmen Square, not Tienanmen, in Beijing\\n\\ntiebreak\\n\\nOne word in tennis.\\n\\nTigray\\n\\nNot Tigre, Ethiopia. The adjective is Tigrayan.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n421\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nTimbuktu\\n\\nNot Timbuktou or Timbuctoo, Mali.\\n\\ntime\\n\\n422\\n\\nAbbreviations of time zones are acceptable providing the GMT equivalent is given.\\n\\nBST (British Summer Time) = GMT +1 CET (Central European Time) = GMT +1 CDT (Central\\nDaylight Time) = GMT -5 CST (Central Standard Time) = GMT -6 EST (Eastern Standard Time) =\\nGMT -5 MDT (Mountain Daylight Time) = GMT -6 MST (Mountain Standard Time) = GMT -7 PST\\n(Pacific Standard Time) = GMT -8\\n\\nWhen referring to times first give the local time by the 12-hour clock (without using the words local\\ntime) and follow it with a bracketed conversion to a 24-hour clock time for a specified time zone, e.g.\\n... will meet at 10 a.m. (1600 GMT). Use figures except for noon and midnight. Use a colon to\\nseparate hours and minutes, 3:15 p.m.\\n\\nUse the style on Friday, on Saturday, on Sunday rather than the looser today, yesterday, tomorrow.\\nHowever, in American style, it is He came Friday, not on Friday.\\n\\nDo not use phrases like several months ago or recently which suggest we do not know when\\nsomething happened or are too lazy to find out. Be precise (cid:19) last August, on Feb. 2.\\n\\ntitbit, but in American style tidbit\\n\\ntitles\\n\\nCapitalise an official(cid:25)s title when it immediately precedes the person(cid:25)s name, but when the title\\nfollows the name or is used alone use lower case, e.g.: President Tom Smith but The president\\nsaid: (cid:28)I would like to welcome the British prime minister, Janet Courage.(cid:29)\\n\\ntitles of sports events\\n\\nUse lower case for sport names, junior, men(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s, championship, tournament, meeting,\\nmatch, test, race, game etc. Use upper case for the event title e.g. French Open tennis\\nchampionships, Dutch Open golf tournament. Use singular championship when one title is at stake\\nand plural championships for more than one, U.S. Open tennis championships (men(cid:25)s, women(cid:25)s,\\ndoubles). Use the name of the sport before championship, tournament etc.\\n\\ntitleholder\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n422\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n423\\n\\nThe word can often be dropped, as in meet together, join together and together with.\\n\\nUse this only when the source is speaking informally to a group of reporters. If he or she is\\naddressing a news conference, say so.\\n\\nUse this phrase only when we are being given significant information or an interview on an\\nexclusive basis. Otherwise it is told reporters or told a news conference. If we get information on the\\nbasis of a telephone call to an official spokesman/spokeswoman who would make the same\\ninformation available to anyone who called, we need simply say the spokesman/ spokeswoman\\nsaid.\\n\\ntogether\\n\\ntold reporters\\n\\ntold Reuters\\n\\ntomato, tomatoes\\n\\nton, tonne\\n\\nWe use both tons and tonnes, without having to give a conversion, but you must make clear what\\nkind of ton(ne) is meant, using the terms long and short where appropriate. The three measures\\nare: tonne (cid:19) 2,204.6 pounds (1,000 kg), formerly called metric ton\\n\\nlong ton (cid:19) 2,240 pounds (or 20 hundredweights, 20 x 112 pounds).\\n\\nshort ton (cid:19) 2,000 pounds, American ton\\n\\nUse lb for pounds in copy\\n\\ntonnage of ships\\n\\nFor passenger liners, cruise ships and other vessels, other than warships, tankers and dry bulk\\ncargo ships, express in gross registered tonnage (grt), a volume measurement expressed in tons,\\nand the first bold-type figure in Lloyd(cid:25)s Register of Shipping.For tankers and dry bulk cargo vessels\\nthe measurement is in deadweight tonnes (dwt,), the actual weight in tonnes of maximum cargo,\\nstores, fuel and people carried, which can be at least twice the gross tonnage.\\n\\nA tonnage scale called compensated gross tons (cgt) is used in statistics to show a country(cid:25)s\\nshipbuilding capacity. Cgt factors in manpower and added values. For instance, a very large crude\\ncarrier is bigger and may need more steel than a smaller liquefied gas carrier, but the number of\\nhours needed to complete the gas carrier, and its value in the market, may be higher than for the\\nsupertanker. In some cases other means of measuring the ship(cid:25)s capacity are used. For liquefied\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n423\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n424\\n\\ngas carriers, use cubic metres (feet) more often than dwt to show the ship\\'s capacity. For container\\nships use teu (twenty-foot equivalent unit) or feu (forty-foot equivalent unit).\\n\\nUse sparingly because it is often tautological, e.g. The president met his top aides ... He would\\nhardly consult junior aides.\\n\\nhowever, note the plural of the fighter-bomber in service with some West European air forces is\\nTornados.\\n\\ntop\\n\\ntopspin\\n\\nOne word in tennis.\\n\\ntornado, tornadoes\\n\\ntorpedo\\n\\ntorpedoes but torpedoing.\\n\\ntortuous, torturous\\n\\nTory, Tories\\n\\nTortuous is full of windings or far from straightforward. Torturous is causing torture or violent\\ndistortion. Negotiations are often tortuous, rarely torturous.\\n\\nAcceptable alternative for second reference to Conservative Party members in Britain.\\n\\ntotal, totalling, totalled, but in American style total, totaling, totaled\\n\\nA total of is usually redundant. Just give the figure.\\n\\ntotal annihilation\\n\\nRedundant. Annihilation is total.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n424\\n\\n\\x0cTouareg\\n\\nUse Tuareg.\\n\\ntowards\\n\\ntrademark\\n\\ntraffic\\n\\ntrafficked, trafficker\\n\\ntragedy\\n\\nTransdniestria\\n\\ntrans-\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n425\\n\\nNot toward. But untoward. However, American style is toward.\\n\\nA trademark is a brand, symbol or word registered by a manufacturer and protected by law to\\nprevent others from using it. Use a generic equivalent unless the trademark is important to the story.\\nWhen used, follow the owner(cid:25)s capitalisation, e.g. Aspro not aspro but aspirin.\\n\\ntrade union, trade unions, not trades unions.\\n\\nDo not devalue this word by overuse. Avoid in sports reporting.\\n\\nA region of Moldova. Do not use Dnestr or other variants unless in quotes.\\n\\nWhen the second element of a word beginning with trans- starts with a capital, hyphenate, e.g.\\ntrans-Siberian. Exceptions are transatlantic, transfat, transpacific, transarctic, transalpine.\\n\\ntransfer, transferring, transferred\\n\\ntransparency\\n\\nA vogue word. Openness will often serve as a substitute.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n425\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\ntranspired\\n\\nUse it in the sense of came to be known, not of happened.\\n\\n426\\n\\nUse transport except where part of a title, e.g. U..S. Department of Transportation.\\n\\nA person who identifies as, or wishes to live and be accepted as, a member of the opposite sex.\\nTranssexuals usually desire physical alteration of their bodies to bring them closer to the sex with\\nwhich they identify. See transvestite\\n\\nRegarded by many cross-dressers as pejorative and should be avoided. Use a simple description or\\nexplanation of how the person prefers to be described. eg "Award-winning potter Grayson Perry,\\nwho frequently dresses as a woman and calls himself Claire..." See transsexual.\\n\\ntravel, travelled, travelling, traveller\\n\\nBut in American style traveled, traveling, traveler.\\n\\nuse lower case treasury bill, not Treasury bill\\n\\nTrillion means one thousand billion. The word must be spelled out, although it can be abbreviated to\\ntrln when necessary in headlines. Always use numerals before trillion, e.g. 2 trillion, 4 trillion.\\n\\nBe careful when linking triple ideas that you have a proper complement of verbs. The following\\nsentence is wrong: Three Iraqis were killed, 22 captured and the crew of the minesweeper tried to\\nscuttle their ship. It should read ... Three Iraqis were killed, 22 were captured and the crew of the\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n426\\n\\ntransportation\\n\\ntranssexual\\n\\ntransvestite\\n\\ntravelogue\\n\\ntreasury bill\\n\\ntrillion\\n\\ntriplets\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n427\\n\\nminesweeper tried... i.e. one complete verb for each element.\\n\\nTrojan horse, Trojan Wars\\n\\ntroop, troupe\\n\\nA troop is a body of soldiers or a group of people. Use troupe only for performers.\\n\\nBe careful in using such a word to describe nouns, especially companies; it can be defamatory. Be\\nspecific, e.g. the company that lost $4 million in its last financial year.\\n\\nTautological. If a fact is not true it is not a fact.\\n\\ntroubled\\n\\ntruck\\n\\nNot lorry.\\n\\ntrue facts\\n\\ntry and\\n\\nUse try to.\\n\\nTsar, not Czar\\n\\nT-shirt, not teeshirt\\n\\ntsunami\\n\\nJapanese for a tidal wave.\\n\\ntuberculosis\\n\\nMay be referred to as TB at second reference. The adjective is tuberculous not tubercular.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n427\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n428\\n\\nTrades Union Congress (UK). Note plural Trades.\\n\\nTUC\\n\\nturgid, turbid\\n\\nTurgid is swollen, pompous or bombastic. Turbid is muddy or thick.\\n\\nFormerly Ellice Islands, West Pacific.\\n\\nAcceptable contraction for television.\\n\\nTuvalu\\n\\nTV\\n\\ntwice\\n\\ntyphoon\\n\\ntyre\\n\\nBut in American style tire (on a wheel).\\n\\nTyrol, Austria\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nNot two time or two times. Bigger numbers should be in the plural, e.g. seven times champion.\\n\\nCapitalise when it has been given a name, e.g. Typhoon Mark.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n428\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n429\\n\\nU\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 UAE\\n2 UAW\\n3 UEFA\\n4 UFO\\n5 UHF\\n6 UK\\n7 UKAEA\\n8 Ukraine\\n9 ULCC\\n10 Ulster\\n11 ultimatum, ultimatums\\n12 Uncle Tom\\n13 under way\\n14 undersecretary\\n15 unexceptionable,\\nunexceptional\\n16 Unification Church\\n17 uninterested,\\ndisinterested\\n18 unique\\n19 un-Islamic\\n20 United Kingdom\\n21 United Nations\\n22 United States\\n23 unparalleled\\n24 unusual names\\n25 up/down\\n26 upside down\\n27 upsurge\\n28 upcoming\\n29 Uppsala, Sweden.\\n30 uranium\\n31 URL\\n32 USDA\\n33 U.S. Congress\\n34 U.S. courts\\n35 U.S. datelines\\n36 U.S. Marshals Service\\n37 U.S. legislative titles\\n38 user friendly\\n39 utilise\\n40 U-turn\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n429\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n430\\n\\nA singular noun, all in capitals. Explain as European soccer(cid:25)s governing body. See www.uefa.com.\\n\\nUAE\\n\\nUAW\\n\\nUEFA\\n\\nUFO\\n\\nUHF\\n\\nUK\\n\\nUnited Arab Emirates.\\n\\nUnited Auto Workers (U.S.).\\n\\nunidentified flying object.\\n\\nultra high frequency\\n\\nUnited Kingdom, no full stops\\n\\nUKAEA\\n\\nUK Atomic Energy Authority.\\n\\nUkraine\\n\\nNot the Ukraine.\\n\\nULCC\\n\\nultra-large crude carrier.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n430\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n431\\n\\nSay Northern Ireland, unless quoting someone. See Northern Ireland.\\n\\nultimatum, ultimatums\\n\\nUlster\\n\\nUncle Tom\\n\\nunder way\\n\\nundersecretary\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nA term of contempt applied to a black person, Potentially libellous.\\n\\nTwo words. Write began or started rather than got under way unless referring to ships.\\n\\nunexceptionable, unexceptional\\n\\nUnexceptionable will not cause problems because no one raises an objection. Unexceptional is\\nordinary or commonplace.\\n\\nUnification Church\\n\\nFounded by Rev. Sun Myung Moon in South Korea in 1954, the Unification Church is a religious\\nmovement that has expanded around the world and is believed to have up to three million\\nmembers. See religous terms\\n\\nuninterested, disinterested\\n\\nUninterested means the opposite of interested. Disinterested means impartial.\\n\\nunique\\n\\nCannot be qualified, so do not write almost unique, more unique, rather unique.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n431\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n432\\n\\nun-Islamic\\n\\nnot unIslamic\\n\\nUnited Kingdom\\n\\nUnited Nations\\n\\nThe United Kingdom comprises Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Great Britain comprises\\nEngland, Wales and Scotland. Use the full or abbreviated form (UK) only to emphasise the inclusion\\nof Northern Ireland with England, Scotland and Wales or if hard-pressed for headline space.\\n\\nSpell it out at first reference when used as a noun. It may be abbreviated to U.N. in a headline. As\\nan adjective it can be also be abbreviated at first reference, e.g. the U.N. General Assembly, U.N.\\nHigh Commissioner for Refugees. Security Council: The 15-member United Nations Security\\nCouncil in New York is the body that takes many of the decisions on U.N. action around the world,\\noften through numbered resolutions, e.g. Resolution 649. It consists of five permanent members\\nwith the power of veto over any resolution (cid:19) Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States.\\nThere are also 10 non-permanent members of the Security Council, made up of other U.N.\\ncountries which serve in rotation, representing different areas of the world. The Security Council\\npresidency rotates monthly, by English alphabetical listing of its member states.\\n\\nSome of the main U.N. agencies:\\n\\nUNEP: U.N. Environment Programme.\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nUNESCO: U.N. Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation.\\n\\nUNHCR: U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. If you wish to avoid using this cumbersome\\ntitle at first reference, use a form of words like a U.N. agency said or the main U.N refugee\\nagency said, giving the full name lower in the story. Note that there is no U.N. High\\nCommission for Refugees, the correct title of the institution being the Office of the UNHCR.\\n\\nUNICEF: The acronym can be used for all references to the United Nations Children(cid:25)s\\nFund.\\n\\nUNIDO: U.N. Industrial Development Organisation.\\n\\nUNRWA: U.N. Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees.\\n\\nUnited States\\n\\nSpell it out at all references in text when used as a noun. It may be abbreviated to U.S. in a\\nheadline. As an adjective it can also be abbreviated at first reference, e.g. the U.S. State\\nDepartment. Do not use USA except in quoted passages. Do not use the noun America as a\\nsynonym for the United States, although you may use American instead of U.S. as an adjective.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n432\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n433\\n\\nunparalleled\\n\\nNot unparallelled.\\n\\nunusual names\\n\\nup/down\\n\\nIf a name is unusual repeat it in brackets, e.g. Aigail (repeat Aigail) Carter. Do not write Aigail (eds:\\ncorrect).\\n\\nIn economic and financial reporting avoid saying is up or is down. Use higher, lower or increased,\\ndecreased, firmer, weaker, etc. Do not use up as a verb, as in ups dividend. Always report ...\\nrose/fell to ... from, never vice versa.\\n\\nupside down\\n\\nThe car turned upside down, but the book is upside-down.\\n\\nupsurge\\n\\nUse surge.\\n\\nupcoming\\n\\nDo not use\\n\\nuranium\\n\\nURL\\n\\nUppsala, Sweden.\\n\\nAny style for website addresses.\\n\\nA radioactive metal. It is enriched by rapid spinning that separates uranium-235, the fuel for nuclear\\nreactors, from uranium-238 that is used to make plutonium.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n433\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n434\\n\\nUSDA\\n\\nU.S. Department of Agriculture.\\n\\nU.S. Congress\\n\\nThe U.S. Congress is divided into two bodies: the 100-member Senate, where each state has two\\nmembers, and the House of Representatives, whose 435 members are allotted in proportion to a\\nstate\\'s population. Almost all members of Congress are either Democrats or Republicans with a few\\nindependent s who align with one of the two parties.\\n\\nU.S. courts\\n\\nThe U.S. court system is divided into state courts, which rule on state laws, and federal courts which\\nrule on national laws and the U.S. Constitution. The federal court system consists of district courts,\\ncourts of appeal and, at the top, the U.S. Supreme Court whose nine members are appointed for\\nlife. The Supreme Court is the final arbiter on constitutional issues.\\n\\nGrand juries: Their prime function is to review evidence presented by a prosecutor and determine\\nwhether there is probable cause to return an indictment. Under the constitution, a grand jury\\nindictment is required for federal criminal charges. Only about half of the states\\' judicial systems use\\ngrand juries.\\n\\nU.S. datelines\\n\\nThe following U.S. cities stand alone in a dateline without the need to mention their state: Atlanta,\\nBaltimore, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Houston,\\nIndianapolis, Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Miami, Milwauke, Minneapolis, New Orleans, New York,\\nOklahoma City, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Pittsburg, St Louis, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, San Diego,\\nSan Francisco, Seattle, Washington.\\n\\nU.S. Marshals Service\\n\\nNo apostrophe.\\n\\nU.S. legislative titles\\n\\nDo not abbreviate legislative titles in the United States. Use Governor, Senator, Representative at\\nfirst mention and then refer to the politician by surname on subsequent reference.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n434\\n\\n\\x0c435\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nuser friendly\\n\\nJargon. Prefer easy to use.\\n\\nutilise\\n\\nPrefer use.\\n\\nU-turn\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n435\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n436\\n\\nV\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 Valletta, not Valetta, Malta.\\n2 Vanuatua\\n3 Varanasi\\n4 VAT\\n5 venal, venial\\n6 vendor\\n7 ventricle, not ventrical, of\\nthe heart\\n8 Very light\\n9 Versus\\n10 veteran\\n11 veto, vetoes, vetoeing,\\nvetoed\\n12 VHF\\n13 via\\n14 vice-\\n15 vice versa\\n16 videogame\\n17 vie, vying, vied\\n18 Viet Cong, not Vietcong\\n19 Vietnam\\n20 Vietnamese names\\n21 Virgin Mary\\n22 vocal cords\\n23 voice mails\\n24 volcano, volcanoes\\n25 Volgograd\\n26 volley, volleys\\n27 Voodoo\\n28 VTOL\\n29 vulgarities\\n\\nValletta, not Valetta, Malta.\\n\\nVanuatua\\n\\nFormerly New Hebrides, Southwest Pacific.\\n\\nVaranasi\\n\\nNot Benares, India.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n436\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n437\\n\\nValue added tax, a system of taxing products on the value added at each stage of production and\\nexchange, effectively a consumption tax.\\n\\nA venal person is corruptible, a venial sin is pardonable.\\n\\nventricle, not ventrical, of the heart\\n\\nVery light\\n\\nA signal flare fired from a pistol.\\n\\nVAT\\n\\nvenal, venial\\n\\nvendor\\n\\nVersus\\n\\nveteran\\n\\nveto, vetoes, vetoeing, vetoed\\n\\nvery high frequency.\\n\\nVHF\\n\\nvia\\n\\nSpell it out in full in text. It can be abbreviated to vs in tables., but American style is to use v. in court\\ncases, e.g. Roe v. Wade.\\n\\nOverused in sports and general news stories and best avoided. Be more precise. Give the person(cid:25)s\\nage and the details that show why the person is a veteran.\\n\\nMeans by way of not by means of. We came via the main roads, but not We came via the bus.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n437\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n438\\n\\nvice-\\n\\nHyphenate titles such as vice-president, vice-admiral, vice-chairman etc, apart from U.S. titles. In\\nAmerican style, use two words for titles such as vice admiral, vice chairman, vice secretary.\\nHyphenate vice-president unless U.S. usage, e.g. vice president of the United States or of an\\nAmerican company. Capitalise when immediately preceding the name of a person.\\n\\nvice versa\\n\\nNot vica versa. No hyphen.\\n\\nvideogame\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nvie, vying, vied\\n\\nViet Cong, not Vietcong\\n\\nVietnam\\n\\nNot Viet Nam.\\n\\nVietnamese names\\n\\nVirgin Mary\\n\\nvocal cords\\n\\nNot chords.\\n\\nUse the last name alone at second reference, e.g. Nguyen Co Thach is Thach and Bui Tin is Tin.\\nThe only exception to this rule is the late Ho Chi Minh (a nom de guerre). He is Ho at second\\nreference.\\n\\nUse this title or the Madonna, not Our Lady except in titles such as Our Lady of Czestochowa or in\\nthe names of churches.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n438\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n439\\n\\nFormerly Tsaritsyn and then Stalingrad.\\n\\nvoice mails\\n\\nTwo words.\\n\\nvolcano, volcanoes\\n\\nVolgograd\\n\\nvolley, volleys\\n\\nVoodoo\\n\\nVTOL\\n\\nvertical take-off and landing.\\n\\nvulgarities\\n\\nSee obscenities.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nCapitalise when referring to the religion, lower case for a magical fix.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n439\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n440\\n\\nW\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n1 wagon\\n2 Wahhabi, Wahhabism\\n3 waistline\\n4 waiver, waver\\n5 wake\\n6 walkie-talkie\\n7 war on terror\\n8 warn\\n9 wartime\\n10 Washington, Washington,\\nD.C.\\n11 Washington\\'s Birthday\\n12 wastebasket\\n13 weather\\n14 weather forecaster, not\\nweatherman\\n15 Web, website\\n16 weekend\\n17 week-long\\n18 well\\n19 West\\n20 West Bank\\n21 Western Hemisphere\\n22 Western Sahara\\n23 Western\\n24 Wheeler-dealer\\n25 Whet, wet\\n26 which\\n27 whiskey, whisky\\n28 white-collar\\n29 White House\\n30 white paper\\n31 whiz-kid\\n32 WHO\\n33 who, whom\\n34 wicketkeeper\\n35 wicketkeeper-batsman\\n36 wide-, -wide\\n37 widow\\n38 Wi-Fi\\n39 withhold\\n40 woes\\n41 word processor, word\\nprocessing\\n42 workforce\\n43 World Bank\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n440\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n441\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n44 World Council of Churches\\n45 World War One/Two\\n46 World Wide Web\\n47 worldwide\\n48 worship, worshipper,\\nworshipped\\n49 wrack, rack\\n50 wreaked\\n51 writedown\\n52 writing\\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\\n52.1 clich\'c3\'a9s\\n52.2 euphemism\\n52.3 jargon\\n52.4 long words and\\nclumsy titles\\n52.5 Synonyms\\n52.6 metaphors\\n52.7 repetition\\n52.8 reported speech\\n52.9 spin\\n52.10 verbs\\n\\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n\'a4 \\n53 writeoff\\n54 WTO\\n55 WWF\\n\\nwagon\\n\\nnot waggon.\\n\\nwaistline\\n\\nwaiver, waver\\n\\nwake\\n\\nWahhabi, Wahhabism\\n\\nReferring to the official school of Islam in Saudi Arabia\\n\\nA waiver is an act of renunciation, to waver is to vacillate.\\n\\nDo not use in the wake of. Use after or following.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n441\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n442\\n\\nDo not use this phrase unless in a quote. It is poor English and part of the propaganda battle around\\nmilitant violence.\\n\\nIt is acceptable to leave out the object of the verb warn, e.g. Police warned of possible attacks. The\\nobject of the verb, the public or travellers or just people, is implied. However, the verb is often\\nstronger and clearer if you spell out exactly who is being warned.\\n\\nWashington, Washington, D.C.\\n\\nDo not specify D.C. unless there is a clear need to distinguish between the western U.S. state and\\nthe federal district that serves as the U.S. capital.\\n\\nWashington\\'s Birthday\\n\\nCapitalise for the holiday which falls on the third Monday of February.\\n\\nwalkie-talkie\\n\\nNote hyphen.\\n\\nwar on terror\\n\\nwarn\\n\\nwartime\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nwastebasket\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nweather\\n\\nWrite good/poor/stormy weather not good/poor/stormy weather conditions.\\n\\nweather forecaster, not weatherman\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n442\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nWeb, website\\n\\nCapitalise Web, but website and webcast lower case.\\n\\n443\\n\\nNot week-end. In American style, use over the weekend, not at the weekend.\\n\\nHyphenated when serving as an adjective, but otherwise no hyphen when following a modified\\nnoun. The well-read man was well mannered.\\n\\nCapitalise it when used in a political sense.\\n\\nweekend\\n\\nweek-long\\n\\nHyphenate as an adjective.\\n\\nwell\\n\\nWest\\n\\nWest Bank\\n\\nWestern Hemisphere\\n\\nWestern Sahara\\n\\nWestern\\n\\nCapitalise for a book or film type.\\n\\nWestern Wall Not Wailing Wall.\\n\\nWheeler-dealer\\n\\nNote hyphen\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n443\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nWhet, wet\\n\\nWhet means to sharpen, hence whet your appetite.\\n\\n444\\n\\nWhiskey is Irish, American and the general term, but whisky is Scotch and Canadian. Scotch as a\\nsynonym is acceptable.\\n\\nwhich\\n\\nSee entry for that, which\\n\\nwhiskey, whisky\\n\\nwhite-collar\\n\\nAdjective -- note hyphen.\\n\\nWhite House\\n\\nwhite paper\\n\\nwhiz-kid\\n\\nNote hyphen, one z.\\n\\nWHO\\n\\nwho, whom\\n\\nMay be used as an alternative to the U.S. administration.\\n\\nGovernment information paper. Two words, lower case.\\n\\nWorld Health Organization (Geneva). See www.who.int\\n\\nWho is the subject, whom the object of a verb. As a rough guide as to which word to use, substitute\\nhe or him for the who or whom and see which makes sense. But we should follow common usage\\nand be ready to use who as the object where this sounds and looks more natural, e.g. Who she met\\nat the midnight rendezvous was not yet known.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n444\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n445\\n\\nHyphenated. Cricketer who is a recognised batsman but who also keeps wicket when his side is\\nfielding.\\n\\nIndustrywide, nationwide, worldwide have no hyphen. Wide-open, wide-bodied, wide-eyed,\\nwide-awake are hyphenated. Widespread is an exception.\\n\\nEither of these is all right: the widow of President John Smith or the wife of the late President John\\nSmith. The widow of the late President John Smith is tautological. Use the late only of those\\nrecently dead, not for instance of someone like John Kennedy who has been dead for several\\ndecades.\\n\\nA popular wireless networking technology that uses radio waves to provide wireless high-speed\\nInternet and network connections for devices such as computers, mobile phones and video games.\\n\\nwicketkeeper\\n\\nOne word in cricket.\\n\\nwicketkeeper-batsman\\n\\nwide-, -wide\\n\\nwidow\\n\\nWi-Fi\\n\\nwithhold\\n\\nNot withold. But threshold.\\n\\nwoes\\n\\nAcceptable in a headline for the sake of brevity but avoid such journalese as economic woes in text.\\n\\nword processor, word processing\\n\\nNo hyphen.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n445\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n446\\n\\nworkforce\\n\\nOne word.\\n\\nWorld Bank\\n\\nAcceptable contraction for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. See\\nwww.worldbank.org\\n\\nWorld Council of Churches\\n\\nBased in Geneva, the WCC is a Christian organisation dedicated to the search for Christian unity. It\\nbrings together some 350 churches, denominations and church fellowships in more than 110\\ncountries and territories, representing more than 560 million Christians. See www.oikoumene.org\\n\\nWorld War One/Two\\n\\nNot First/Second World War. Not WWI/WWII.\\n\\nWorld Wide Web\\n\\nShorten to Web, but website, but webcast, webmaster.\\n\\nworldwide\\n\\nNo hyphen.\\n\\nwrack, rack\\n\\nwreaked\\n\\nworship, worshipper, worshipped\\n\\nUse wrack only for seaweed and wrack and ruin. Otherwise use rack.\\n\\nNot wrought. She wreaked vengeance.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n446\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nwritedown\\n\\nOne word as a noun, two words as a verb.\\n\\n447\\n\\nGeneral principles stated by H.W. and F.G. Fowler hold good:\\n\\nPrefer the familiar word to the far-fetched.\\n\\nPrefer the short word to the long and the single word to the circumlocution.\\n\\nPrefer the concrete word to the abstract.\\n\\nPrefer the Saxon word to the Romance.\\n\\nAvoid pompous words like ongoing, escalating, prestigious, meaningful, facility. More often\\nthan not we can also do without special, key, dramatic, major, giant, large-scale, massive\\nand crisis. Modish words like confrontation substitute polysyllabic vagueness for the crisp\\nprecision of (in this case) clash, dispute or even war.\\n\\nwriting\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nclich\'c3\'a9s\\n\\nNews stories relying heavily on phrases that have become stale through over use are like paintings\\ndone by number. They convey information but lack life or freshness. Avoid clich\'c3\'a9s that exaggerate\\nor over-simplify e.g. the postage-stamp country, the oil-rich sheikhdom.\\n\\nSome clich\'c3\'a9s to avoid:\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\nIn diplomacy and politics: face-to-face talks, on key issues, top-level meeting, headed into\\ntalks on, spearheaded a major initiative, rubber-stamp parliament, lashed out, landmark\\nagreement.\\nIn disasters: mercy mission, airlifted/rushed to hospital, giant C-130 transports, massive aid,\\nan air and sea search was under way, disaster probe, sifted through the wreckage.\\nOf violence: lone gunman, strife-torn province, embattled city, baton-wielding police,\\nstone-throwing demonstrators, steel-helmeted troops braced themselves for, police swoop,\\npre-dawn raid, staged an attack on, (tautologically) anti-government rebels, (tautologically)\\narmed soldiers. Avoid armed police unless writing about a country where the police are\\nnormally unarmed. Then explain.\\nOf industrial trouble: top union leaders, bosses, in a bid to settle, hammer out an agreement.\\n\\neuphemism\\n\\nEuphemism, beloved of bureaucrats and social scientists, seeks to cloak reality, sometimes\\nunpleasant, in innocuous words. Shun it. Except in quotation, write elderly people not senior\\ncitizens; kill not terminate with extreme prejudice; poor not disadvantaged, died of cancer not\\npassed away after a fight with cancer.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n447\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\njargon\\n\\n448\\n\\nTechnical and professional jargon has no place on the Reuters file unless you are writing for a\\nnarrow, specialist audience and are certain that your story is not likely to interest a broader\\nreadership. Backwardation might have a place without explanation in a report written uniquely for\\nthe gold market on a dull trading day, but if gold hits a high in a time of crisis your story should\\nexplain it or convey the meaning in simple terms without using the word itself.\\n\\nSimilarly, stories should not contain jargon associated with a specific profession, least of all our own\\ne.g. do not use stringer in a story about a journalist. Use freelance journalist. Think carefully before\\nusing quotes laced with jargon. Paraphrase instead.\\n\\nJournalese stems from importing into the text language used as shorthand in headlines. Some\\nexamples to avoid: Aimed at ... amid reports that... burgeoning (growing)... cutback (cut) ... dubbed\\n(called)... due to (when what you mean is because of)... economic/fiscal woes ... embattled... giant\\n(large) ... global (unless we mean literally that)... hit by fears that... lash out.. long-time foe... looks\\nset to... major (big, large) ... massive (big) ... meaningful (real, significant) ... modalities (means,\\nprocedures) ... mum (silent)... OKs (approves) ... oil-rich... parameters (limits)... probe (inquiry) ...\\nreportedly.. rocked by .. the statement came as... war-torn.\\n\\nlong words and clumsy titles\\n\\nAvoid unnecessarily long words and clumsy strings of names and titles. Foreign Minister Amr\\nMoussa is fine. Under-Secretary for Military Procurement Major-General Abdul Karim al-Razzak is\\nnot. Split up such names and titles; either the Under-Secretary for Military Procurement,\\nMajor-General Abdul Karim al-Razzak, or Major-General Abdul Karim al-Razzak, under-secretary\\nfor military procurement. Here are some long words commonly and unnecessarily used when there\\nis an acceptable shorter and simpler version:\\n\\nSynonyms\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\nadditional - more\\nalternative - other\\napproximately - about\\nattempt - try\\nconfrontation - clash, dispute\\nconstruct - build\\ncutback - cut\\ndemonstrate - show\\ndispatch - send\\ndiscover - find\\nescalation - rise, increase\\nestablish - set up\\nextinguish - put out\\nfacility - plant, base etc.\\nfinalise - complete, finish\\nfollowing - after\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n448\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n449\\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\nlarge-scale - big\\nmanufacture - make\\nmodalities - means\\nnegotiations - talks\\nnumerous - many\\nparticipate - take part\\npermit - let\\nrequirements - needs\\nsufficient - enough\\ntarget (verb) - aim at\\ntransportation - transport\\n\\nmetaphors\\n\\nrepetition\\n\\nreported speech\\n\\nA fresh and vivid metaphor can add much to a story. But avoid mixed metaphors, e.g. The Egyptian\\nswimmers walked away with the championships, and metaphors whose literal sense is absurd e.g.,\\na growing bottleneck, which would solve rather than aggravate a problem.\\n\\nAvoid excessive repetition of words and of stereotyped descriptions of people or things, but do not\\noverdo the search for variations. If you are writing about Myanmar call it Myanmar and not the\\nSoutheast Asian country. It is better to repeat the United Nations than to avoid repetition by calling it\\nthe world body. It is better to repeat the word base than call it a facility.\\n\\nDo not retain the present indicative in reported speech. Change is to was; are to were; will and shall\\nto would; has and have to had. Thus it is: He said it was ... not he said it is ...\\n\\nIn news agency style, there is an exception in lead paragraphs that have the source at the end\\ninstead of the beginning of a sentence, where to avoid the present indicative would lead to lack of\\nclarity or smack of pedantry. For example, it is acceptable to write in a lead paragraph: Giant Oil\\nCorp will order three supertankers from the Pusan shipyard in Korea next month, the company said.\\nIf the source were at the beginning, we would write: Giant Oil Corp said it would order three\\nsupertankers from the Pusan shipyard ...\\n\\nspin\\n\\nSpin can be insidious and subliminal, conveyed in words and phrases that trip off the tongue or flow\\neasily onto the page but disguise an agenda. (cid:28)Operation Iraqi Freedom(cid:29) was the name the United\\nStates gave to the military campaign in 2003 that it said was designed to liberate Iraq. We wrote\\nthat the United States invaded Iraq to overthrow Saddam Hussein.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n449\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nverbs\\n\\n450\\n\\nVerbs bring action and life to a story but the wrong verb can indicate bias on our part. The verb to\\nsay is usually the best, neutral choice in reporting a speech or statement.\\n\\nAlleged, claimed or maintained could imply that Reuters does not believe a statement and noted,\\npointed out, recalled or emphasised suggest that we do. Use announced with care. Only competent\\nauthorities have the right to make announcements.\\n\\nAvoid concede, which implies an admission of guilt or previous error. Prefer said. Do not write refute\\n(which means disprove) when you mean deny or reject.\\n\\nOther potentially partisan verbs to avoid include admitted, asserted, affirmed, contended, stressed,\\nsuggested.\\n\\nCome, leave and give are verbs too often misused in flabby phrases. Go for positive construction.\\nAvoid limp phrases like The demands came when... The fire left six people dead... or The strike left\\ncommuters angry... Demands do not come; people make them. Fires do not leave people dead,\\nthey kill them. Strikes anger commuters, not leave them angry.\\n\\nAlso avoid continued (or worse, ongoing), especially in the lead paragraph. The word gives the\\nimpression of monotonous action. Finally, there is always a better verb than \\'to get\\'.\\n\\nOne word as a noun, two words as a verb.\\n\\nwriteoff\\n\\nWTO\\n\\nWWF\\n\\nWorld Trade Organisation. Based in Geneva and launched in 1995 to supervise existing\\ninternational trade accords and provide a forum to negotiate agreements and adjudicate in disputes.\\n\\nThe new official name for the World Wide Fund for Nature. Explain somewhere in the story.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n450\\n\\n\\x0cThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n451\\n\\nXYZ\\n\\nContents\\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n\'95 \\n\\n1\\nXerox\\n2 yard\\n3\\nyardstick\\n4 year\\nends\\n5\\nyoke,\\nyolk\\n6\\nyouth\\n7\\nzero,\\nzeros\\n8\\nZuider\\nZee\\n9\\nZULU\\n\\nXerox\\n\\nyard\\n\\nyardstick\\n\\nyear ends\\n\\nA trademark, never a verb. Use photocopy.\\n\\nTo convert to metres multiply by 9 and divide by 10, precisely multiply by 0.914\\n\\nFinancial, fiscal (tax), company and crop years rarely coincide with calendar years so explain clearly\\nin the text which year is referred to, e.g. The budget target deficit for the financial year ended March\\n2002 was... or Cocoa production rose 14 percent to 100,000 tonnes in the year ended September\\n2001. Take care with crop-year dates as the old crop can be harvested and the new crop planted in\\nthe same year. To refer to the 2002 crop can be dangerously ambiguous. Also, Commodity\\nproducers sometimes also have marketing years for produce that differ from the crop year. In such\\ncases spell out the year referred to and when each starts and ends. Organisations such as the U.S.\\nDepartment of Agriculture and the International Coffee Organisation produce statistics, based on\\ndifferent years.\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n451\\n\\n\\x0c452\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nyoke, yolk\\n\\nYoke for oxen and yolk of an egg.\\n\\nyouth\\n\\nBoys and girls aged 13 to 18.\\n\\nzero, zeros\\n\\nZuider Zee\\n\\nZULU\\n\\nNot Zuyder Zee, Netherlands.\\n\\nA term used by Western military forces to mean GMT.\\n\\nCategory: The Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\nThe Reuters General Style Guide\\n\\n452\\n\\n\\x0c'\
}